<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-89A4937C-79C6-5985-9275-496A4299F30F" xml:lang="en"><title>T_Camera
test suite </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This topic describes the <codeph>T_Camera</codeph> Test Suite. It provides
an overview about the test suite, its coverage, how to set up the test environment
to execute the test suite, and how to find further information about the test
cases offered by this test suite. </p>
<section><title>Test Suite overview</title> <p>The <codeph>T_Camera</codeph> Test
Suite provides the tests for the <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita"><apiname>CCamera</apiname></xref> class. </p> <p>All
APIs that Symbian classifies as <b>PublishedAll</b> are tested within this
class. </p> <p> <b>Note:</b> Any mention of <codeph>epoc32</codeph> is offset
by <codeph>%EPOCROOT%</codeph> that is, the full path where the epoc tree
is installed. </p> </section>
<section><title>Test approach</title> <p>The Test Suite provides a basic run
through of the public functionality of the <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita"><apiname>CCamera</apiname></xref> API.
The purpose of the Test Suite is to provide a regression test suite of PublishedAll
APIs for <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita"><apiname>CCamera</apiname></xref> class. Negative testing is performed wherever
it is needed, to confirm that correct errors are returned when incorrect parameters
are given. The tests are automated and does not require user intervention. </p> </section>
<section><title>Coverage omissions</title> <p>None. </p> </section>
<section><title>Test suite details</title> <ul>
<li id="GUID-35CA0F2A-797D-5267-8EDD-D8475D8A38E4"><p> <b>Test Script Source
Tree location:</b>  </p> <p>The descriptions of the test cases can be found
in the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\ecam\t_camera\scripts\MM-ECM-PublicApi.script</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-498A9781-5525-58F3-8063-E4BA4ED53ED4"><p> <b>Test Script EPOC
tree location on Emulator:</b>  </p> <p>When the tests are built for emulator
or hardware (winscw or armv5), the scripts are exported to the following location
in the epoc tree: </p> <p><filepath>%EPOCROOT%\epoc32\data\Z\multimedia</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-75A55F11-D616-5C0F-BDDE-972295E29418"><p> <b>Test Script Hardware
path location: </b>  </p> <p>When the tests are built, the scripts are built
in the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>%EPOCROOT%\epoc32\release\&lt;winscw|armv5&gt;\&lt;udeb|urel&gt;\Z\multimedia</filepath>  </p> <p> <b>Note: </b> If the tests are built to run on hardware, the files are built in the <codeph>z</codeph> drive
of the ROM. </p> </li>
</ul> <p><b>Test
data source tree location</b> </p> <p>The test data files can be found in
the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\ecam\testdata\t_camera\MM-ECM-PublicApi.ini</filepath> </p> <p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\testdata\t_multimedia.ini</filepath>  </p> <p><b>Test data EPOC tree location</b> </p> <p>When the tests are built for
emulator or hardware (winscw or armv5), the test data files are exported to
the following location in the epoc tree: </p> <p> <filepath>%EPOCROOT%\epoc32\data\Z\multimedia\MM-ECM-PublicApi.ini</filepath> </p> <p> <filepath>%EPOCROOT%\epoc32\data\Z\multimedia\t_multimedia.ini</filepath>  </p> <p><b>Test
Data Build Location</b> </p> <p>When the tests are built, the test data files
are built in the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>%EPOCROOT%\epoc32\release\&lt;winscw|armv5&gt;\&lt;udeb|urel&gt;\Z\multimedia
                </filepath>  </p> <p> <b>Note: </b> If the tests are built
to run on hardware, the files are built in the <codeph>z</codeph> drive of
the ROM. </p> <p><b>TestDriver file</b> </p> <p>The multimedia <filepath>.driver</filepath> file
is found in the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\testsuites\multimedia </filepath>  </p> <p>This
is used by the TestDriver to construct the test suite tree structure and export
all the appropriate files to the correct location in the epoc32 tree and on
the device. </p> <p>When the tests are built, the <filepath>.driver</filepath> file
is built in the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>%EPOCROOT%\epoc32\testdriver\testproduct</filepath>  </p> <p id="GUID-20A11B22-C8ED-59CB-81C0-27C06A237F36"><b>TCS file source location</b> </p> <p>The <filepath>.tcs</filepath> file
can be found in the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\config\t_multimedia.tcs</filepath>  </p> <p><b>TCS file build location</b> </p> <p>When the tests are built, the <filepath>.tcs</filepath> file
is generated into the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>%EPOCROOT%\epoc32\release\&lt;winscw|armv5&gt;\&lt;udeb|urel&gt;\Z\multimedia</filepath> </p> <p> <b>Note:</b> When the tests are built to be executed on the hardware,
the files are built into the <filepath>z</filepath> drive of the ROM. </p> <p id="GUID-A87D9A93-BDD3-5443-8C3D-B36221AE0A39"><b>Test global environment
file</b> </p> <p>The <filepath>t_multimedia.ini</filepath> file is the test
suite global environment file that contains the following configurable parameters
in <codeph>default_camera</codeph> section: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-0988BEF7-CFF6-5575-8172-C89A282CCAC6"><p> <codeph>count = 1</codeph>  </p> <p>Defines
the number of cameras available on the device. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-4304AFA7-7507-563F-8B92-08FC1EFF05AF"><p> <codeph>validstill
= 0</codeph>  </p> <p>Sets to the 0 offset index of the camera used for still
photography tests. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F7303127-15E2-571B-94A4-05E3A1C16D66"><p> <codeph>invalidstill
= 100</codeph>  </p> <p>Sets to an invalid camera index for negative still
photography tests. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>This enables you to modify these parameter values so that the tests
may be executed with different test data. For example, if the device under
test has 2 cameras, then <codeph>count = 2</codeph>. </p> </section>
<section><title>Test environment and execution</title> <p><b>Device
setup</b> </p> <p>The device under test must have the camera hardware in place.
The Symbian platform does not provide an implementation of the <codeph>CCamera</codeph> class
assuming that device creators are likely to have their own cameras. </p> <p>The
device specific camera details can be modified in the <filepath>t_multimedia.ini</filepath> file.
(refer to <xref href="GUID-89A4937C-79C6-5985-9275-496A4299F30F.dita#GUID-89A4937C-79C6-5985-9275-496A4299F30F/GUID-A87D9A93-BDD3-5443-8C3D-B36221AE0A39">Test
global environment file</xref> section). </p> <p>The test suite can be run
using the test camera application in the absence of a production quality camera
application. The test camera implements the complete set of API functionality.
However, a device creator may not implement all API functionality and consequently
tests for unimplemented APIs will fail. The test camera application can be
found in the following location (relative to the location of the source code): </p> <p> <filepath>…\os\mm\imagingandcamerafws\camerafw</filepath> </p> <p>The following commands in <filepath>mmsetup.pl</filepath> file builds
the test camera: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-2F3B150E-F152-5279-84DC-86B563EEDBB3" xml:space="preserve">system("bldmake bldfiles");
system("abld test build $platform $build testcamera");
</codeblock> <p> <filepath>…\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\group\mmsetup.pl </filepath>  </p> <p>This
can be run by running <filepath>mmsetup.bat</filepath>. </p> <p>In addition
an empty file <filepath>102070CC.txt</filepath> must be created on the same
drive <filepath>\epoc32\winscw\c\</filepath>  </p> <p>For information on test
environment and build and execution procedure, refer to <xref href="GUID-05570195-D64A-5F65-AB7C-2C6BF8D332B3.dita">Multimedia
test technology</xref>. </p> <p><b>Support</b> </p> <p>For support issues related to this Test Suite description and issues
to running the tests, test pass rates, and potential defects, contact Symbian
or your SDK provider. In most instances this will be either through the Symbian
technical consulting teams, the SDK provider forums or via the developer area
of <xref href="http:\\www.Symbian.org" scope="external">Symbian</xref> website. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>