<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-4067B0E6-9431-4325-95F7-78B143EED326" xml:lang="en"><title>Softkeys
and basic softkey configuration</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The Symbian platform supports two softkeys and labels the Selection key
in the middle of the Control pane. This, in effect, looks like a "middle softkey".
Touch UI does not have the middle softkey label visible, refer to <xref href="GUID-BB8B3A11-0BBC-4759-A7F4-A28C9E70573F.dita">Touch
support for common UI components</xref>. The softkey labels are placed in
the control pane (the bottom area of the screen). The left and right softkeys
always have textual labels, but the Selection key can also have two icons
in certain situations.</p>
<p>The three softkey configurations supported in the Symbian UI style are
the following:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Basic Symbian portrait-oriented UI with softkeys immediately below
the screen (the middle softkey label is visible). </p></li>
<li><p>Symbian UI with side softkeys in landscape (both left and right rotation
possible, middle softkey label not possible). </p></li>
<li><p>Symbian UI with bottom softkeys in landscape (middle softkey label
not possible). Not available for Touch UI.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>For more details on the functions assigned to softkeys, see <xref href="GUID-959AB527-12A7-4BDB-B01F-F0868E60D237.dita">Where
the Symbian user interface belongs </xref>and <xref href="GUID-26435FE1-D912-4AA2-96EE-82B35DA231E6.dita">Typical
functions of the standard keys</xref>. </p>
<section id="GUID-821EA4E9-F6D3-48A4-8D69-DDEBFD6E90F0"><title>Using
softkeys in applications</title><p>The API to use for softkeys is the <xref format="html" href="specs/guides/Buttons_API_Specification/Buttons_API_Specification.html" scope="peer">Buttons API</xref>. For implementation information, see <xref format="html" href="specs/guides/Buttons_API_Specification/Buttons_API_Specification.html#Buttons_API_Specification.topic3" scope="peer">Using the Buttons API</xref>.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>