<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-AED57265-6106-4217-ADE6-1327CA3FDE7E" xml:lang="en"><title>PKG
file format to support simple installation</title><abstract><p>The simplest installation file supports a single language version
only and requires no special capabilities. It installs a fixed list of files
to the Symbian device and is self-signed. The PKG file must contain
the following elements: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-9B77CB46-60E1-56CE-8232-BD279E17335F"><p><xref href="GUID-0BE71FC3-4759-50FC-A74F-C3DD42C9FCED.dita">Languages</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-D049FACA-2B95-5705-893F-A4E048112815"><p><xref href="GUID-7664A4D4-C24B-5225-9E0B-7A021DA6A3AF.dita">Vendor
Names</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-294AFEF8-DD71-5EB0-930B-DC120BDB9879"><p><xref href="GUID-D9D20EE0-AC86-512A-91C0-EA0ACF3912A7.dita">Package-Header</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-28A5B022-61FF-59A2-B003-4F67E8A5D6E7"><p><xref href="GUID-FF39192E-9C93-593F-8F47-DB18DB876F6F.dita">Installation
Files</xref>  </p> </li>
</ul> </abstract><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-072DCCAD-86E8-491C-B29C-3F776AEF9456"><title>Example</title><p>The following PKG file is provided in <filepath>examples\HelloWorld\</filepath>.
The associated files are built from the source code located in the same directory.
See <xref href="GUID-F64B88E0-49DA-5563-896E-29BAB8A244C9.dita">here</xref> for
information. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-2541A514-BAA9-54E6-8927-2F0044F28D5B" xml:space="preserve">; List of languages supported
&amp;EN

; List of localised vendor names
%{"Nokia Corporation"}
; Single, non-localised (global) vendor name
:"Nokia Corporation"

; Package header format: Package Name, UID, Major version, Minor Version, Build Number
#{"Minimal application"},(0xE8000091),1,0,0

; Files to install for the minimal application: "Files located on PC" - "Target location on the Symbian device"
"HelloWorld.exe"-"!:\sys\bin\HelloWorld.exe"
"HelloWorld.rsc"-"!:\resource\apps\HelloWorld.rsc"
"HelloWorld.mbm" - "!:\resource\apps\HelloWorld.mbm"
"HelloWorld_reg.rsc" - "!:\private\10003a3f\import\apps\HelloWorld_reg.rsc"</codeblock> <p> <b>Notes</b>: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-44A14482-9E1F-58FE-B09E-90E57A88CB55"><p>The package UID is used
to uniquely identify the package. It can be requested in the same way as an
application's third UID, through https://www.symbiansigned.com or for convenience
it can use the same value as the application's third UID </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A04BA1AD-6933-5F4B-A405-6F0D8E9862FB"><p>By default, the contents
of SIS files are compressed. This can be prevented by using the <codeph>NOCOMPRESS</codeph> option
in the PKG header. Specifying <codeph>NOCOMPRESS</codeph> is not recommended
unless you are installing files that are already compressed, for example JPEGs. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9CA46545-2DDD-5257-B9D0-A14097DAC422"><p>The package major and
minor version numbers are required for version control. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-993965FB-D45C-5891-8535-8154E584F554"><p>The build number must
be incremented whenever the component is rebuilt. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-5728DA6F-AF8C-557F-91BF-301C8C0E937C"><p>The <codeph>!</codeph> character
must be used as the target drive letter to allow the Symbian device user select
the target drive during installation. To prevent the Symbian device user from
being able to select the target drive, <codeph>$</codeph> can be used, to
denote the system drive. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B5916D13-9177-5205-A027-005F1EE8B2E5"><p>If folders in the target
installation path do not exist, they are automatically created by the installer. </p> </li>
</ul></section>
</conbody></concept>