<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-51EDBA17-41AF-58FB-A96F-D5A136F83977" xml:lang="en"><title>Creating
an Installer</title><abstract><p>  The Software Installation Framework helps you to create installation
applications for installing software of different types, such as Java, Python
and Flash.</p></abstract><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context id="GUID-3F15E095-7C50-4DC8-87B5-37F7D332FC43"><p>You can create an installer as an in-process plug-in or as a server-side
plug-in. You should choose the architecture that best meets your specific
requirements. </p> <p>An in-process plug-in is loaded as a DLL.
You can create an installer as an in-process plug-in to verify a client's
identity and capabilities. For example, a Java installer may require the <codeph>ECapabilityWriteUserData</codeph> capability
to activate or deactivate a MIDlet. </p> <p>Server-side plug-ins use the SIF
Transport Library to handle software management requests such as install,
uninstall and so on. This reduces the effort of implementing a server for
handling software management requests by simplifying the sending of software
management requests across a process boundary. </p> <p> <b>Notes:</b>  </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-91DE0E73-64DC-5DA1-BC7F-6A1288653A87"><p>For more information
about an ECom plug-ins, see the <xref href="GUID-9E92EE30-F2E2-5F28-BB2A-391C09EC69D2.dita">Plug-in
Framework</xref> section. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-EBF6DD6E-1672-5C6E-8024-069A7E5395BC"><p>The SIF Transport Server
is implemented as a transient server. This means that it runs only when it
is in use and terminates when its usage count falls to zero. </p> </li>
</ul> </context>
<steps-unordered>
<step id="GUID-C369CE01-B6F0-4A94-879F-55BD66D359C9"><cmd><xref href="GUID-743BFB3C-7B88-4A5C-A655-A50DEB45FC46.dita">Creating
an installer as an in-process plug-in</xref></cmd>
</step>
<step id="GUID-68AF9104-4F4B-492A-8205-92100E386613"><cmd><xref href="GUID-969EA8CE-7B8C-458D-983B-837128F747E7.dita">Creating
an installer as a server-side plug-in</xref></cmd>
</step>
</steps-unordered>
</taskbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-34EF6527-14D0-5C8B-9E20-A3A3B3320054.dita"><linktext>SIF Overview</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-8EE40A1A-7905-522B-A1A1-3F4ED053B042.dita"><linktext>Using the
Application Management Functions</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-2AB7F53A-5EDF-574D-866D-EF2592881559.dita"><linktext>Configuring
the SIF Launcher</linktext></link>
</related-links></task>