<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-2822DEF4-F7E2-5795-BD67-14BF77C1EB85"><title>ps</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p><userinput>ps [-fhsl] [-o]...</userinput> </p> <p>The <codeph>ps</codeph> command lists the details all the processes running on a system. By default, the following details are displayed for each process: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-FED78113-2C99-5022-A24D-3C6105E3036C"><p>Process ID </p> </li> <li id="GUID-8FC71FF6-C921-5AC2-B329-6B148D14146E"><p>Total execution time </p> </li> <li id="GUID-0BB887B0-4732-5BFD-94B2-8FCF2CCED800"><p>Process name </p> </li> </ul> <p> <b>Notes:</b>  </p> <ul><li id="GUID-4A81CC4F-A8C2-5833-A6A9-AAD83D834001"><p>Whenever data is not accessible to the <codeph>ps</codeph> command, a <b>?</b> symbol is displayed. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-F32CBB6C-E6AE-5AA8-BD01-8FF6FA6CA60D"><p>The total execution time is not listed on a Hardware Reference Platform (HRP) or a production device as the monitoring mechanism is optimised out of production ROMs. </p> </li> </ul> <p>The <codeph>ps</codeph> command supports the following options: </p> <table id="GUID-B7FC30FF-E6D2-5394-8F57-6EBEE2D43C93"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><thead><row><entry>Option</entry> <entry>Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <codeph>-f</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Lists the details all the processes along with the following information for each process: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-1DADF78F-A392-5946-8E50-98890C896C60"><p>Process ID </p> </li> <li id="GUID-066CE9E2-23F2-51C8-A936-DA321DA7EF34"><p>Total execution time </p> </li> <li id="GUID-6744B988-EF19-5D93-A81F-D922729158C6"><p>Complete path of the executable used by the process </p> </li> </ul> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>-h</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Displays help information for the <codeph>ps</codeph> command. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>-s</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Lists the names of the servers. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>-l</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Lists the details all the processes along with the following information for each process: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-3F6BDB4C-0ABC-5905-BE04-A7A2C2565140"><p>Status of the process </p> </li> <li id="GUID-06E1D31A-1F11-5CD9-8468-F1F46C70D295"><p>Process ID </p> </li> <li id="GUID-1E5CB2AD-C84F-5C78-8582-61A364815361"><p>Priority of the process </p> </li> <li id="GUID-28EEBEE8-77B6-5F3D-9391-B0C4085ECA20"><p>Address of the process </p> </li> <li id="GUID-3016385B-ABA7-5E58-A7AD-AE25F0B877C1"><p>Size of the process </p> </li> <li id="GUID-8DA900DF-BC28-55F8-AC86-B39CA4245439"><p>Total execution time </p> </li> <li id="GUID-CD62477C-3241-53C6-9790-C052D49F5DEB"><p>Name of the process </p> </li> </ul> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>-o</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>This option enables you to customise the column headers displayed when the details of all the processes are listed. The default column headers are <b>TIME</b>, <b>PID</b>, <b>COMMAND</b> (command arguments for the process), and <b>COMMAND</b> (complete path of the executable used by the process). You can customise these column headers by assigning a value for the following variables: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-5648EA03-FEFC-59B0-B2E5-B034751532BC"><p> <b>time (TIME):</b> Total execution time. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-6D8A79A4-8A6F-510C-8DFC-B78767B00B56"><p> <b>pid (PID):</b> Process ID. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-12AA284C-9B70-5298-9888-ADBC34059FD1"><p> <b>args (COMMAND):</b> Command arguments for the process. The Symbian version of the <codeph>ps</codeph> command does not list any command arguments for a process, instead the complete path of the executable used by the process is displayed within square brackets under the <b>comm</b> column. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-C40D8523-923B-500F-8B0A-750656084C86"><p> <b>comm (COMMAND):</b> Complete path of the executable used by the process. </p> </li> </ul> <p> <b>Examples:</b>  </p> <ul><li id="GUID-8DE4314C-EEFF-5BF9-8E03-5EAC57DCB355"><p>To assign <b>Total Execution Time</b> as column header instead of <b>TIME</b> (the default value), use the following command: </p> <p><userinput>ps -o "time=Total Execution Time"</userinput> </p> <p> <b>Note:</b> You can use a comma (,) to specify multiple values using the <codeph>-o</codeph> option. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-7E2AC6F1-5329-5BDC-BFBA-48AE571C38EE"><p>To view the details of the processes with their default column headers, use the following command: </p> <p><userinput>ps -o comm,time,args,pid</userinput> </p> </li> <li id="GUID-20F0B32A-A757-5699-857F-440B8257326D"><p>To view the details of the processes with their complete path and assign <b>Exec Time</b> as column header for <b>TIME</b>, use the following command: </p> <p><userinput>ps -o comm, time=Exec Time</userinput> </p> </li> </ul> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> <p>The following table describes the default column headers used be the <codeph>ps</codeph> command: </p> <table id="GUID-367EE044-500B-5062-BCD4-9D076810288E"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><thead><row><entry>Column Header</entry> <entry>Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p>S</p> </entry> <entry><p>Describes the state of the process. The only state supported by Symbian is <b>Running</b>. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>PID </p> </entry> <entry><p>Indicates the process ID of the process. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>PRI </p> </entry> <entry><p>Indicates the priority of the process. When the state of the process is suffixed by <b>&lt;</b> it indicates that the process is of high priority. Otherwise, when the status is suffixed by <b>N</b> it indicates that the process is of low priority. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>ADDR </p> </entry> <entry><p>Indicates the memory address of the process. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>SZ </p> </entry> <entry><p>The size in blocks of the core image of the process. (1 block = 512 bytes). </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>TIME </p> </entry> <entry><p>The total execution time for the process. This is displayed in the following format: </p> <p> <codeph>[dd-]hh:mm:ss</codeph>  </p> <ul><li id="GUID-DD3E2AEC-742B-594F-8C11-9A82B13B6171"><p> <b>dd:</b> Days </p> </li> <li id="GUID-D2AF0252-CB01-5204-BCC4-548A0DC9B60F"><p> <b>hh:</b> Hours </p> </li> <li id="GUID-977B3E67-569A-5635-B513-7D19A642460F"><p> <b>mm:</b> Minutes </p> </li> <li id="GUID-D7CA229C-AADC-5CB2-986A-C5ADAB04C505"><p> <b>ss:</b> Seconds </p> </li> </ul> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>CMD </p> </entry> <entry><p>Indicates the command name (complete path of the executable used by the process). The complete path is displayed when you use the <codeph>-f</codeph> option. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </conbody></concept>