<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-4ACEA6B0-CA7C-5751-A1B6-283287552A31" xml:lang="en"><title>HTTP
Whole Message Filter Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-F92DE930-90BF-4292-8832-02BA1309E09D"><title>Purpose</title> <p>The HTTP Whole Message Filter APIs makes
it easier for mobile browser developers to meet the needs of the mobile network
operators who support specific Web Accelerators. This results in a faster
and much improved Web browsing experience. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-63F035E3-36B3-494C-95A3-33956B54E1E9"><title>Required background</title> <p>Users of this API must be familiar
with the HTTP Transport Framework and the Web Acceleration protocol to be
implemented. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-DC4C88D2-34BF-4704-ACED-DEAFACA6859C"><title>Key concepts</title> <p>The following are the key concepts
that are associated with HTTP Whole Message Filter APIs: </p> <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>HTTP Whole Message Filter APIs</dt>
<dd><p>Enables you to insert a filter into an HTTP session or an individual
transaction when the complete message is formed and before the message is
being dispatched. The APIs also operate on incoming HTTP responses before
the actual parsing of the HTTP response happens. The use of the HTTP Whole
Message Filter APIs enable you to achieve Web Acceleration on Symbian platform
based mobile browser applications. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Web Acceleration</dt>
<dd><p>The process of optimising the HTTP data to enhance the speed at which
data is transferred over the mobile network. Web Acceleration is achieved
by the use of encoding and decoding mechanisms supported by the HTTP Whole
Message Filter APIs. The HTTP Whole Message Filter APIs are included as part
of the HTTP Protocol Handler in the HTTP Transport Framework. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt> Encoding mechanism</dt>
<dd><p>This mechanism converts the HTTP request data to a network optimisation
protocol format before it is sent across the TCP connection. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt> Decoding mechanism</dt>
<dd><p>This mechanism converts the HTTP response data in the network optimisation
protocol format back to the standard HTTP response data format. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
</dl> </section>
<section id="GUID-46189E5D-A350-40E0-AC0D-37BA69D211A6"><title>API Summary</title> <p>The following table lists the HTTP
Whole Message Filter APIs that are included in the HTTP Transport Framework
to enable Web Acceleration support on a Symbian platform based mobile browser
application: </p> <table id="GUID-41857A21-0437-5FC8-9844-83861501B6D1">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>API</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <b>Description</b>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>MHTTPDataOptimiser</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>An interface that can be derived to implement custom encoding and
decoding mechanisms. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Functions included in the MHTTPDataOptimiser interface </b>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>EncodeL(…) </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Converts the HTTP request data to a network optimisation protocol
format. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph> DecodeL(…) </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Converts the HTTP response data in the network optimisation protocol
format back to the standard HTTP response data format. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Functions included in the RHTTPSession class </b>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>RHTTPSession::SetupHTTPDataOptimiser                  
(MHTTPDataOptimiser&amp; aHTTPOmtimiser);</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Sets the <codeph>MHTTPDataOptimiser</codeph> reference for the session
object. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>MHTTPDataOptimiser* RHTTPSession::HTTPDataOptimiser   
               ();</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Returns a pointer to the <codeph>MHTTPDataOptimiser</codeph> implementation
object. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Functions included in the RHTTPTransaction class </b>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>RHTTPTransaction::SetupHTTPDataOptimiser              
    (MHTTPDataOptimiser&amp; aHTTPOmtimiser);</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Sets the <codeph>MHTTPDataOptimiser</codeph> reference for the transaction
object. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>MHTTPDataOptimiser* RHTTPTransaction::HTTPDataOptimiser
                  ();</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Returns a pointer to the <codeph>MHTTPDataOptimiser</codeph> implementation
object. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-F0ABCDE5-F818-526A-81EB-E2D4D87E3231.dita"><linktext>How to Use
the HTTP                 Whole Message Filter APIs</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-B4A54501-4AA4-5ACB-96D7-4427C7752639.dita"><linktext>Using HTTP
Client</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>