<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-6BD9D6ED-99EA-5611-AF58-A6694ADE95F4" xml:lang="en"><title>Kernel
Utilities Test Guide</title><shortdesc>This section explains the Kernel side utilities test suite. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-8BC50732-C83E-4A77-9C2A-02195A3543F5"><title>Purpose</title> <p>E32 Utilities contains a set of kernel
side utilities. The utilities need to be tested and the drivers verified,
on the specified hardware before use. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-2FBBAF3F-04DF-4F47-B2AC-23F75B2C6B65"><title>Required background</title> <p>This document assumes that
the reader is familiar with the kernel utilities and the drivers before use. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-5CFBAC07-63B7-4B32-B2BF-696D973FAA40"><title>E32 utilities Summary</title> <p>E32 Utilities provides the
following components: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-1CE0EA10-897E-57E8-AC09-AB381962EFE9"><p> <b>Kernel Trace Tool
Server</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>btrace.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>Provides trace
point management for debugging. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-033CDFC8-8D8C-5F20-BF6F-8D57E1312056"><p> <b>Crash read application</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>crashread.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>A
reader application used to read the crash log. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C1527D14-DD9C-5010-B46F-B255CB116095"><p> <b>Trap and log user-side
exceptions and panics </b>  </p> <p> <filepath>d_exc.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>Creating
log file for exceptions. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-5BE9B75C-CC95-5003-83B7-A9E1ACB40534"><p> <b>kernel MultiMediaCard
Controller</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>d_mmcif.ldd</filepath>  </p> <p>set of
direct interface functions with the kernel MultiMediaCard Controller. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-BF36BFB0-6843-54AA-96E1-BBDCF99E72F9"><p> <b>Demand paging test</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>dptest.dll</filepath>  </p> <p>Testing
the attributes of Demand paging. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3EFC781A-1C55-5CCA-88C5-7D98B24D3F2E"><p> <b>Demand paging test
on the console</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>dptestcons.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>Prints
the demand paging test information on the console. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-296D67B4-6B78-5208-A611-1CF40E143CAA"><p> <b>Host USB manager</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>hostmsapp_usbman.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>Loads
the USB OTG stack, detects OTG cable insertion and communicating the events
to USB Manager </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-77CCDC15-01DF-5B8D-9496-CE4334DCF0CA"><p> <b>USB Mass Storage
Application</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>hostusbmsapp.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>It
is used as for storage and also as a improvised boot loader mechanism </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-6F5BFC63-09FF-57F3-BA9E-0D3ED72D3AA7"><p> <b>HOST USB Console
Application</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>husbconsapp.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>Accepts
input of the user from the console. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C20F80A3-409F-53CE-BC9F-6FDB4EF95558"><p> <b>Minimal kernel-side
debug agent</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>minkda.ldd</filepath>  </p> <p>Implements
minimal kernel-side debugging. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-18EA26DC-8E28-5B5B-AE62-F912464D0323"><p> <b>MMC loader</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>mmcloader.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>To
load the MMC based ROMs on the partition and flash the MMC card. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-1AA480CD-2AC5-5859-B21C-B284F4E84027"><p> <b>Testing the MMC
card</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>mmctest.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>Testing the attributes
of the MMC card. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-83180DC1-3488-57DE-9401-CB80CAF4A6AB"><p> <b>Nandloader</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>nandloader.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>Thsi
is used to load a Nand image and validate the checksum of an uncompressed
ROM image. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7A65B264-1D2D-5ED6-BBFF-DADCBB701BE0"><p> <b>USB mass storage</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>otgusbmsapp.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>USB
mass storage support on an OTG device. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-CE22152A-F869-5A3D-B2CB-DFFC23E00A97"><p> <b>A profiler application</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>profiler.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>A
profiler application to eeset the driver and nonXIP code segments. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-587AE79C-6845-5653-855A-C2A6E39B0CA2"><p> <b>A sampler application</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>sampler.ldd</filepath>  </p> <p>It
samples the PC (program counter) and current thread ID. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-163D10F4-EBC0-596D-BA6C-A6A2D600B4A3"><p> <b>Set capabilities</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>setcap.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>Set
new capabilities. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DF843C04-CB42-5055-9D1B-EDE7E12B419E"><p> <b>Logial device channel</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>testusbc.ldd</filepath>  </p> <p>Setting
up a logical device channel. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-12840C35-DD42-5C22-8EFC-23B715842343"><p> <b>USB mass storage
application</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>usbmsapp.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>USB Mass
storage application that enables target board to appear as a drive while connected
to a USB host (like PC) </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-197E8DA6-B300-59F5-A4DE-4F84C42CCFBA"><p> <b>Tests USB OTG client
driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>usbtestclient.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>Tests
the USB drive by showing drive letters,Mount/ Unmount drives and lock/ unlock
drives. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7C363EDB-EC8E-5299-8809-2A5941120753"><p> <b>USB Mass storage
file system</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>usbtestmsclient.fsy</filepath>  </p> <p>USB
Mass storage file system. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0532982E-006E-5E2F-9D40-7A73FA429D2E"><p> <b> USB Mass storage
file system with double buffer.</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>usbtestmsclient_db.fsy</filepath>  </p> <p>USB
Mass storage file system with double buffer to read/write threads. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-A0A7B5B7-57F6-5FDF-BB7A-2FA40561A737.dita"><linktext>Kernel Tests
Guide</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-8C2B9DC3-9D96-560A-B27A-A8EB6C9A342C.dita"><linktext>SDIO test
Guide</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>