<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-66C1F45B-FA94-5724-AD8F-371EAE92B7E9"><title>DEBUGGABLE_UDEBONLY</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p> <codeph>DEBUGGABLE_UDEBONLY</codeph>  </p> <p>Use the <codeph>DEBUGGABLE_UDEBONLY</codeph> statement to mark only the debug version of application to be debugged using the run-mode debug API. </p> <p>If both <codeph>DEBUGGABLE_UDEBONLY</codeph> and <codeph>debuggable</codeph> are in an <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file, the behaviour will follow as <codeph>DEBUGGABLE_UDEBONLY</codeph>. </p> <p>The following examples show the different scenarios when using the keywords <codeph>debuggable</codeph> and <codeph>DEBUGGABLE_UDEBONLY</codeph>: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-EF3AF6B3-0587-575A-A5CB-267756F6F759"><p>Perform the following steps using the keyword <codeph>debuggable</codeph>: </p> <ol id="GUID-824310D9-B3E7-549D-9F55-2583D070D575"><li id="GUID-B39CBDF7-921E-51A8-A6DF-EEAD4F21BC76"><p>Add keyword <codeph>debuggable</codeph> into <filepath>helloworld.mmp</filepath> file </p> </li> <li id="GUID-B75B8A27-8B65-5067-9FE3-83AE7694202D"><p>Build <filepath>helloworld.mmp</filepath>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-CEFFA970-9F72-54B3-9692-9E21FF107CCB"><p>Execute READIMAGE to dump <filepath>helloworld.exe</filepath> (release and debug version). </p> <p>The expected result is <codeph>0x00000800</codeph>, which means the executable file is debuggable. </p> </li> </ol> </li> <li id="GUID-D26C012B-A5DF-55C6-B834-B10770E8EA0E"><p>Perform the following steps using the keyword <codeph>DEBUGGABLE_UDEBONLY</codeph>: </p> <ol id="GUID-5AFC6E61-7A01-5F65-8182-F809DF9C197F"><li id="GUID-3719B145-F7DE-5F28-B0B7-29DA324F86EA"><p>Add keyword <codeph>DEBUGGABLE_UDEBONLY</codeph> into <filepath>helloworld.mmp</filepath> file </p> </li> <li id="GUID-0EFDBA66-6165-58B7-B271-E9A4718EADE8"><p>Build <filepath>helloworld.mmp</filepath>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-6C1C6A2C-5B70-5BBE-B560-37E6BD3DAA74"><p>Execute READIMAGE to dump <filepath>helloworld.exe</filepath> (release and debug version). </p> <p>The expected result is that the debug version of the executable file is debuggable but, the release executable file is not debuggable. </p> </li> </ol> </li> <li id="GUID-DBC9B952-929C-537C-B61E-8F171EB7A7BA"><p>Perform the following steps using both <codeph>DEBUGGABLE_UDEBONLY</codeph> and <codeph>debuggable</codeph> keywords: </p> <ol id="GUID-5A5F8F34-2BB8-5455-B4CA-FE48A5CDB148"><li id="GUID-9A0AC7C7-A2D3-5974-B494-E5991BDDCE71"><p>Add both <codeph>DEBUGGABLE_UDEBONLY</codeph> and <codeph>debuggable</codeph> keywords into <filepath>helloworld.mmp</filepath> file. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-1B849FB4-2718-51DF-849F-11239E96540B"><p>Build <filepath>helloworld.mmp</filepath> file </p> </li> <li id="GUID-05D90FDA-9B87-5CB9-AFFF-FD2C6F45831B"><p>Execute READIMAGE to dump <filepath>helloworld.exe</filepath> (release and debug version). </p> <p>The expected result is that the debug version of the executable file is debuggable but, the release executable file is not debuggable. </p> </li> </ol> </li> </ul> </conbody></concept>