<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-F48CC072-66A0-5DBA-99A2-2F3BABF83BEB" xml:lang="en"><title>Using
Template Records: Tutorial</title><shortdesc>This tutorial shows you how to create a template record and how
to load a template record. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>


<prereq id="GUID-79D61D00-D3F8-5B59-A31B-70D62A678A28"><p>Before you start,
you must understand: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-501A8C46-76F8-5F01-9CA8-FA9FC96ECEC5"><p>the general concept
of the Comms Database </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2B9C290D-8200-58CF-9724-445A76B7A97D"><p>the specific concepts
of fields, records, links and tables </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-150E70EC-2BB5-5D64-9A62-11F08E22177E"><p>how to write and build
application code to run on Symbian platform </p> </li>
</ul> </prereq>
<context id="GUID-9DE45A6C-27FB-5044-ABF9-4AB80EE25F96"><p>A template record
contains default data values. You can use a template record when you create
a record to add to the Comms Database. </p> <p>For example, the records in
the <xref href="GUID-387A8240-0765-52F2-98A4-8F9FC809E03E.dita#GUID-387A8240-0765-52F2-98A4-8F9FC809E03E/GUID-430CB4B1-2AC5-5773-AA59-ED8D275D555A">DialOutISP</xref> table
are large. Many of the fields in a <codeph>DialOutISP</codeph> record have
values that are the same in all <codeph>DialOutISP</codeph> records. A template
record can contain these common values. When you create a <codeph>DialOutISP</codeph> record,
set the value of those fields to be copied from the template record to NULL.
Set the other fields in your <codeph>DialOutISP</codeph> record to values
that are specific to that record. </p> <p>These principles apply to all record
types. </p> <p>The following steps create and load a template record for the <xref href="GUID-387A8240-0765-52F2-98A4-8F9FC809E03E.dita#GUID-387A8240-0765-52F2-98A4-8F9FC809E03E/GUID-303A3C65-3391-540D-B0FB-75E92DC7663E">Network</xref> table. </p> </context>
<steps id="GUID-43AC55D4-7A92-5E2C-A553-BB5C7C480676">
<step id="GUID-EFB76398-E924-595C-8543-1BA161B759FE"><cmd>Make sure that you
have created a session. </cmd>
</step>
<step id="GUID-20CE8E14-9901-58C3-9748-08647689D2BC"><cmd>Set the attribute
mask for this session to hidden. </cmd>

<info>Template records are marked as hidden. Set the session mask to hidden
to allow you to view the template records. </info>
<stepxmp><codeblock id="GUID-26C827E9-26DC-5754-BFF1-45217834371B" xml:space="preserve">cmdbSession-&gt;SetAttributeMask(ECDHidden); 
</codeblock> </stepxmp>
</step>
<step id="GUID-59D75159-147D-5B6D-848D-F08FF4531741"><cmd>Create a template
record and store it in the database. </cmd>
<stepxmp><codeblock id="GUID-354E9238-2723-53DE-9E65-FC7A7FDDFE36" xml:space="preserve">...
// Create a "Network" record, but give it the unique numeric Id KCDDefaultRecord.
// The CommsDat API interprets the record Id KCDDefaultRecord to mean the 
// template record.
CCDNetworkRecord* ptrNetworkRecord = (CCDNetworkRecord*)CCDRecordBase::RecordFactoryL(KCDTIdNetworkRecord);
ptrNetworkRecord-&gt;SetRecordId(KCDDefaultRecord);

// Template records must be hidden.
ptrNetworkRecord-&gt;SetAttributes(ECDHidden);

// Store the template record in the database
ptrNetworkRecord-&gt;StoreL(*cmdbSession);
...</codeblock> </stepxmp>
</step>
<step id="GUID-9C8B3007-85BE-54CB-97AE-3F895432925A"><cmd>Load the template
record from the Comms Database </cmd>
<stepxmp><codeblock id="GUID-7B3746E9-D7A4-5CBE-9D7B-E2365956F2C6" xml:space="preserve">...
// Create an empty "Network" record, and set the record Id to KCDDefaultRecord
// The CommsDat API interprets the record Id KCDDefaultRecord to mean the 
// template record.
CCDNetworkRecord* ptrNetworkRecord = (CCDNetworkRecord*)CCDRecordBase::RecordFactoryL(KCDTIdNetworkRecord);
ptrNetworkRecord-&gt;SetRecordId(KCDDefaultRecord);
ptrNetworkRecord-&gt;LoadL(*cmdbSession);
...</codeblock> </stepxmp>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-1AFDDD6F-CB99-587D-A0B5-D3F5B27F7135.dita"><linktext>Comms Database
                concepts</linktext></link>
</related-links></task>