<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-032BE80C-CF9B-564C-B2F8-F254B12699CB" xml:lang="en"><title>Release
Notes</title><shortdesc>The Symbian Developer Library for Product Developers is intended
for device developers and contributors to the Symbian platform. The information
in the library corresponds to the Symbian^3 platform release.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-C454C6AE-8348-45C4-A374-11598B78193A"><title>What's new
in this release</title><p><b>New content:</b></p><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-94005A46-B4C6-4A30-A8E8-1B9C2D583D50.dita">Classic UI Guide</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-C0D38954-2FC5-4E8B-BC11-229464DCF16C.dita">High
Level Internet Protocols Guide</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-DD13AA8E-BDAD-57EC-81EC-49C8D6D30A86.dita">Short Link Services
Guide</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-F9F53050-AAFA-4685-8C62-033E585F061B.dita">Web Guide</xref></p></li>
</ul><p>The following S60 5th Edition C++ Developer's Library 'Technology
area guides' have been integrated into the Symbian guide:</p><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-29486886-CB54-4A83-AD6D-70F971A86DFC.dita">Application
and UI frameworks</xref> is now in Classic UI Guide.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-CCE6DC36-625C-487C-9AD8-F1BF8E36080A.dita">S60 UI components</xref> is
now in Classic UI Guide.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-3E341F9F-2635-589B-A59A-B999FE7DF9BE.dita">Multimedia</xref> is
now in Multimedia Guide.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-377F7C19-C799-45CE-9ADA-4BB884B422BA.dita">Browsing and
downloading</xref> is now in Web Guide. </p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-1E158DE6-33F5-4B45-8923-28117EBAB68A.dita">Location</xref> is
now in Location Based Services (LBS).</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-AB3D07E6-83C9-4948-A13F-75A65498F444.dita">Security</xref> is
now found at the top level. </p></li>
</ul><p>The S60 Open C and Open C++ documentation has been merged into the
Symbian P.I.P.S. documentation and is now in <xref href="GUID-5072BE46-B1B4-5C3A-BF55-BEA7443E7657.dita">Generic
OS Services Guide</xref>.</p><p><b>Other changes:</b></p><p>The Symbian Developer
Library is now released under the <xref href="http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html" scope="external">Eclipse Public License</xref> (EPL). </p></section>
<section id="GUID-712A36C3-BC09-4702-916D-30B6C423FDAB"><title>Known issues</title><p>This
release does not contain any API specifications. These are available in the
Symbian Developer Library for the Symbian^2 platform release.   </p><p>Some
topics previously included in the S60 5th Edition C++ Developer's Library
are not yet available, including S60 device user experience, UI porting guide,
and What's new. These are planned to be included in an upcoming release.</p><p>The
library contains some broken links, and some links to legacy websites for
instance Symbian Developer Network.</p><p>Some sections under Symbian guide
do not map correctly to Symbian Foundation packages. </p><p>A “Getting Started”
section is not included in this release. Until this has been addressed, it
is recommended that you refer to the Symbian Foundation's <xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/Symbian_C++_Quick_Start" scope="external">Symbian C++ Quick Start</xref> and <xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/Going_Beyond_Hello:_A_Tutorial_for_Symbian_C%2B%2B_Applications" scope="external">Going Beyond Hello</xref> for this information.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-DA20A251-8794-4CA9-B34B-73D8BD8E8A09"><title>Upcoming releases
and improvements in the Symbian Developer Library for Product Developers</title><p>See
the <xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/Documentation_Content_Package/Backlog" scope="external">Documentation Content Package Backlog</xref>.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-D21694BA-16D0-461E-81F5-DEEED9DC83A7"><title>Feedback</title><p>To
give feedback, please go to the <xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/bugs/enter_bug.cgi?product=Documentation%20Content" scope="external">Symbian Foundation Bugtracker</xref> (login required).</p></section>
</conbody></concept>