<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-4B0847C1-D399-52E5-B3EA-B54E1C907079"><title>Network Control Overview</title><shortdesc>This topic describes the Network Control collection. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><section><title>Purpose</title> <p>This collection groups the plugins that implement a Network Layer protocol's Control plane. The Control plane is the second of the three planes of the <xref href="GUID-B7A40638-BA80-5175-B23D-2F3964C274A0.dita">Comms Architecture</xref>. </p> </section> <section><title>Architecture</title> <p>This collection provides some of the <xref href="GUID-CF890168-0FCA-5BFD-AC86-E355B611A6B0.dita#GUID-CF890168-0FCA-5BFD-AC86-E355B611A6B0/GUID-0B0B61DE-AABC-5F87-8205-30F818F79C0A">Stack Node</xref> plugins to the Comms Architecture. The Stack Nodes in this collection both: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-324A028A-828F-5952-A0B3-C5186B029E9F"><p>Implement a technology from the <i>Network</i> layer of the TCP/IP layered model (RFC 1122) </p> </li> <li id="GUID-C00556CB-6255-5BEC-BF19-2102F066EF4E"><p>Implement a Stack Node for the <xref href="GUID-F43A54C0-E82B-5790-8493-1372D214C642.dita#GUID-F43A54C0-E82B-5790-8493-1372D214C642/GUID-CFFC0BC1-FD9D-5F82-8906-2F9E8FCD21F5">Control Plane</xref> of the Comms Architecture </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>Component Description</title> <p>The collection can be divided into three groups of components: </p> <ol id="GUID-A679850F-0AB0-5FA8-BC23-CA18A8D129E6"><li id="GUID-0BB78800-9F15-526A-AE43-7FE1F128A648"><p> <xref href="GUID-9A20701F-5744-5F5F-BB0C-AB58EFB7D087.dita"> Quality of Service (QoS)</xref> components: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-A89F618E-A1B9-5391-BCBA-28BE0CDCDBA8"><p> <i>QoS Fmwrk Config</i> - QoS framework configuration files. The configuration files are <filepath>qos.ini</filepath> and <filepath>qospolicies.ini</filepath> . </p> </li> <li id="GUID-1721A94B-24DE-5C35-905C-00F670EFD5EC"><p> <i>QoS Library</i> - QoS API library. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-68631877-2C43-533A-9CC6-31E60A0E37EC"><p> <i> PF QOS Library</i> - message interface to manage the QoS policy database. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-489A049B-B6FD-54A5-89F1-95D9585B85AB"><p> <i> QoS Frmwrk PRT</i> - QoS Protocol module plugin to the <xref href="GUID-61E0CD76-A2E3-5066-84A8-146EECA8ADCD.dita">Socket Server</xref>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-D2261270-6AC7-5650-B530-9BA7518D8975"><p> <i>QoS IP SCPR</i> - Stack Node that manages QoS for a subconnection. </p> </li> </ul> </li> <li id="GUID-1C5D3539-EC09-5272-9C1D-10230EB540B1"><p>Internet Protocol (IP) components: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-7B10E916-C052-59BA-938D-2109D67E27C6"><p> <i>IP Network Layer</i> - Stack Nodes representing the transport (UDP+TCP) layer. This component connects the <xref href="GUID-7821C498-70A2-5D3C-989A-58CEBAE9162B.dita">TCP/IP protocol module</xref> to the Comms Architecture because the TCP/IP protocol module has an old interface that cannot connect directly to the Comms Architecture. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-C1A48434-CBA1-5A7E-BF4E-357C8D4D84E5"><p> <i>IP Transport Layer</i> - Stack Nodes representing the network (IP) layer. This component connects the <xref href="GUID-7821C498-70A2-5D3C-989A-58CEBAE9162B.dita">TCP/IP protocol module</xref> to the Comms Architecture because the TCP/IP protocol module has an old interface that cannot connect directly to the Comms Architecture. </p> </li> </ul> </li> <li id="GUID-4D3616B6-41D0-567C-8F30-90394620CBF8"><p>The User Prompt Manager. This component manages interaction with the user when an application that does not have the <codeph>NetworkServices</codeph> capability requests access to a network. </p> </li> </ol> </section> </conbody></concept>