<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-8D130FC5-3AB8-5C70-A9D2-C753957E729F" xml:lang="en"><title>Basics:
demonstrates basic use of the Symbian platform DBMS</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section><title>Description</title> <p>This is an example of database manipulation
using the DBMS. </p> <p>Initially the database is created as a permanent file
store, using <codeph>CFileStore</codeph> routines. A table ("CDs") is created
with three fields ("Artist", "Title" and "Price") and this is then indexed
on the "Artist" and "Title" fields. </p> <p>To prove the correct action of
the previous code, the example iterates through the database, printing the
contents to the console. Finally, the database is closed and
the example exits. </p> </section>
<section><title>Download</title> <p>Download the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-36e49706-602c-4aee-91d3-5083679e1d3d.zip" scope="external">Basics.zip</xref> </p><p>Download some additional files required
by the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-89fa6105-e749-4e5f-a233-a000e3b9390b.zip" scope="external">CommonFramework.zip</xref></p><p>View the source code: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-36e49706-602c-4aee-91d3-5083679e1d3d.html" scope="peer">browse</xref>. View the additional files: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-89fa6105-e749-4e5f-a233-a000e3b9390b.html" scope="peer">browse</xref></p> </section>
<section><title>Usage</title> <p>The example should be run from the command
line with no parameters. </p> </section>
<section><title>Class summary</title><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-AE1BEF00-5AA7-3F03-95B0-9E40395EDA6C.dita"><apiname>RDbView</apiname></xref> - Generates rowsets from an SQL query. The
query is prepared and evaluated using the interface to this class, while the
rowset is manipulated using the RDbRowset base class.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-F4A68645-2265-307F-B951-8295827E000B.dita"><apiname>RDbStoreDatabase</apiname></xref> - DBMS Store database implementation.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-0130C7AA-B143-32A4-BB33-0D90CEDABAAE.dita"><apiname>TDbCol</apiname></xref> - Defines a column in a table or rowset.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-DDB34DBF-4A96-3430-820A-97AB5585962D.dita"><apiname>TDbKeyCol</apiname></xref> - Defines a key column in an index.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-9B02D75E-1EE0-349E-9900-BEC1CAF9DECE.dita"><apiname>CDbColSet</apiname></xref> - Manages a set of column definitions
which describe a table or rowset structure. Column definitions can be added
and removed. The set can be iterated over, and ordinals for a column can be
looked up.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-F861EB8F-F621-3E77-8F9A-5E4EFC4E9C2F.dita"><apiname>RDbRowSet</apiname></xref> - An abstract base class that provides
functionality which is shared between SQL view objects and Table objects.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-0CA88018-0265-3853-AC64-3B938DD0F60C.dita"><apiname>CDbKey</apiname></xref> - Represents the definition of an index. </p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-E79A3B03-F8CB-37DB-A2A8-1C6C4E4D739A.dita"><apiname>TParse</apiname></xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-1C4D4AFD-85E2-3D5D-B704-D1FA0E5E7DA2.dita"><apiname>TStreamId</apiname></xref> - Provides unique identification for stream
within a store.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-9CBA8AB1-5BFC-3719-82AF-22A9BD93C306.dita"><apiname>CFileStore</apiname></xref> - File based persistent store abstract
base class.</p></li>
</ul></section>
</conbody></concept>