<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-54417A4F-710D-5257-BF49-13D9F28C92B9" xml:lang="en"><title>Memory
Management Overview</title><shortdesc>Provides functionality concerned with how memory is allocated for
and within programs.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-F614F405-BECD-404C-800E-C723107FEE5A"><title>Purpose</title> <p>Fundamental to Symbian platform programs
is a concern that memory, as a limited resource, is carefully handled, particularly
in the event of error conditions. For this reason, exception handling and
memory management are closely tied together in the Cleanup Support API.</p> </section>
<section id="GUID-C176F084-C218-41EC-8C8C-AD5E74235382"><title>Architectural relationships</title> <p>The Uikon framework
uses these APIs to provide to each GUI program the basic infrastructure for
well-behaved memory handling. In particular, each GUI program has support
for cleaning up memory in exception conditions, and, in debug builds, detection
of memory leaks. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-F8EE693D-A01C-49BF-A2DD-FD50CB6EEAF1"><title>Description</title> <p>Functionality is provided by a number
of APIs. Use them as follows:</p> <p><xref href="GUID-E5A83EF3-948B-5729-A2CD-3644E803520B.dita">Cleanup
Support Overview</xref> </p> <p>Provides idioms to handle program exceptions,
and to clean up memory when exceptions occur.</p> <p><xref href="GUID-6D8460DF-8B0F-5249-B236-92ABE0E67A14.dita">Memory
Allocation Overview</xref> </p> <p>Provides low-level functionality by which
a Symbian platform process can access and manipulate memory areas.</p> </section>
<section id="GUID-6C1446EB-CAF5-4545-BB75-3F894740AEF8"><title>See also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-FBE448A4-4728-5EE5-84F2-4790735857B3.dita">Basic
Types Overview</xref> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-506642C2-A14F-55F2-9377-43DDB14F4053.dita">Raw
Memory Overview</xref> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-FF8F5D97-7D37-5F6B-84A3-C064E2FD53E0.dita">System
Static Functions Overview</xref> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-5D4B86D3-20C4-5D87-A6C1-225018D32347.dita">Thread
And Process Management Overview</xref> </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>