<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-2BB17FB4-07A9-52E3-A650-570A16FA771D" xml:lang="en"><title>SecurityConfig
Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section><title>Purpose</title> <p>Symbian <i>OS Security</i> components use
configuration files to change their run-time behaviour. The <filepath>SecurityConfig</filepath> component
is a collection of configuration files for specific OS Security components. </p> </section>
<section><title>Description</title> <p>The <filepath>SecurityConfig</filepath> component
includes configuration files for specific OS Security components. The configuration
files can be used to change the run-time behaviour of the components. </p> <p>Within <filepath>SecurityConfig</filepath>,
the files associated with each component are stored in a directory with the
same name as the component. For example, the configuration files for ups is
stored in <filepath>/securityconfig/ups/</filepath>. </p> <p> <filepath>securityconfig</filepath> contains
configuration files for the following components: </p> <table id="GUID-B586B456-17FE-51E7-BA08-35637324A208">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry> Component Name</entry>
<entry>Description of configuration file(s)</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <filepath>ocsp</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Configuration settings for checking the revocation status of the
digital certificates which use Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP). </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <filepath>ups</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>An xml file (<filepath>backup.xml</filepath>) which backs up and
restores the User Prompt Service (UPS) policy files. </p> <p>A package file
for the UPS server ROM stub SIS file. Device creators must specify the UPS
policy files on the Z drive in this package file if the policy files are to
be upgraded post-manufacture. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>You must modify the configuration files and rebuild the <filepath>securityconfig</filepath> component
to customise the behaviour of specific OS Security components. </p> <p><b>Build
Dependencies </b> </p> <p>The <i>securityconfig</i> component builds or exports
files that are used to build other components. </p> <note><ul>
<li id="GUID-A60953AA-713A-5244-AA74-1BB0F0150D6B"><p>You must be aware of
possible dependencies on the <filepath>securityconfig</filepath> component,
if you are building each components separately. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-914F1F87-BF39-5FE7-9775-17AAE47B26D2"><p>You must build the <filepath>securityconfig</filepath> component
before building dependent components. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0BC59BF2-CCE7-551B-8BFD-C94E64354131"><p>Dependencies for the
entire OS Security module build are handled by the build sequence in the main <filepath>bld.inf</filepath> file. </p> </li>
</ul></note> </section>
<section><title>Typical uses</title> <p>The <i>SecurityConfig</i> component
provides configuration settings for customising the following: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-61C0B043-B554-5D02-8F7B-7A2910AC97BC"><p> <xref href="GUID-6FCAB5DC-D3E9-5406-8B9E-E1B1CF18C73F.dita">OCSP</xref> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-05E8BBA5-0E16-5E0E-AAE0-AEE25AA4B5CE"><p> <xref href="GUID-6849E256-6719-5788-BCB2-7557F09AAAD0.dita">UPS</xref> </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
</conbody></concept>