<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-73B12E66-A01D-5ABC-BEFF-73558DBAB9E7" xml:lang="en"><title>Category:
SmlController</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>SyncML panics represent program errors which are detected by the SyncML
framework. Typically, they are caused by passing bad or contradictory
parameters to functions.</p>
<p>The thread causing the panic is terminated. </p>
<table id="GUID-D15CBFEF-9FCC-5556-986C-86F7538213BB">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>0</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Invalid parameter.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is an attempt
to pass an invalid parameter to a SyncML function. </p> <p>See <xref href="GUID-D53C77CD-350F-33E3-96DB-6F73E5999F77.dita#GUID-D53C77CD-350F-33E3-96DB-6F73E5999F77/GUID-60617131-B290-3F44-A228-81580052C18C"><apiname>CSmlTask::SetNameL()</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-AE165FD2-940F-38E6-9B77-8178ED0049F1.dita#GUID-AE165FD2-940F-38E6-9B77-8178ED0049F1/GUID-FB4D6104-4E3D-39B0-87AF-668B93506031"><apiname>CSmlProfile::AddTaskL()</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-AE165FD2-940F-38E6-9B77-8178ED0049F1.dita#GUID-AE165FD2-940F-38E6-9B77-8178ED0049F1/GUID-D9ACA8F7-249F-3F52-BE9B-E3481AA9F134"><apiname>CSmlProfile::SetProfileNameL()</apiname></xref>.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>1</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Incomplete data.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is a attempt
to use a parameter which contains incomplete data.</p> <p>See <xref href="GUID-AE165FD2-940F-38E6-9B77-8178ED0049F1.dita#GUID-AE165FD2-940F-38E6-9B77-8178ED0049F1/GUID-FB4D6104-4E3D-39B0-87AF-668B93506031"><apiname>CSmlProfile::AddTaskL()</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-F185271F-8865-3B0F-AE2A-C9A37BAF28E5.dita#GUID-F185271F-8865-3B0F-AE2A-C9A37BAF28E5/GUID-E6923255-30BB-37CF-B427-EBEDFC23DE53"><apiname>CSmlController::CreateProfileL()</apiname></xref>.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>2</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Null task member.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is an attempt
to externalize a Task object which has not been completely defined.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>3</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Task member not NULL.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is an
attempt to internalise Task information into a <codeph>CSmlTask</codeph> object
which is not NULL.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>4</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Null task identifier.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is an
attempt to get a task's identifier, when this has not previously been set.</p> <p>See <xref href="GUID-D53C77CD-350F-33E3-96DB-6F73E5999F77.dita#GUID-D53C77CD-350F-33E3-96DB-6F73E5999F77/GUID-BF88852C-22F3-333C-81E8-2C616B3FD8D9"><apiname>CSmlTask::Identifier()</apiname></xref>.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>5</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Null task provider.</p> <p>This panic is raised there is an attempt
to get a task's content provider information, when this has not previously
been set.</p> <p>See <xref href="GUID-D53C77CD-350F-33E3-96DB-6F73E5999F77.dita#GUID-D53C77CD-350F-33E3-96DB-6F73E5999F77/GUID-C06D454A-1105-3CA7-A014-A6F2A1149450"><apiname>CSmlTask::Provider()</apiname></xref>.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>6</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Null task target.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is an attempt
to get a task's target database, when this has not previously been set.</p> <p>See <xref href="GUID-D53C77CD-350F-33E3-96DB-6F73E5999F77.dita#GUID-D53C77CD-350F-33E3-96DB-6F73E5999F77/GUID-9580BFDB-838D-3556-9B68-6B8A427DFA33"><apiname>CSmlTask::Target()</apiname></xref>.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>7</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Null task source.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is an attempt
to get a task's source database, when this has not previously been set.</p> <p>See <xref href="GUID-D53C77CD-350F-33E3-96DB-6F73E5999F77.dita#GUID-D53C77CD-350F-33E3-96DB-6F73E5999F77/GUID-537BE60F-8E56-3D84-9EAF-69DF8B93B5E8"><apiname>CSmlTask::Source()</apiname></xref>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>8</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Null profile member.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is an
attempt to externalize a Profile object which has not been completely defined.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>9</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Profile member not NULL.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is
an attempt to internalize Profile information into a profile object which
is not NULL.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>10</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Task list not empty.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is an
attempt to internalise Task list information into a profile object which is
not empty.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>11</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Null profile identifier.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is
an attempt to get a profile's identifier value, when this has not previously
been set.</p> <p>See <xref href="GUID-AE165FD2-940F-38E6-9B77-8178ED0049F1.dita#GUID-AE165FD2-940F-38E6-9B77-8178ED0049F1/GUID-057AF521-7105-3212-A4BD-09782BCB69BA"><apiname>CSmlProfile::Identifier()</apiname></xref>.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>12</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Null profile authorization type.</p> <p>This panic is raised if
there is an attempt to get a profile's authorisation type value, when this
has not previously been set.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>13</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Null profile protocol.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is an
attempt to get a profile's protocol information, when this has not previously
been set.</p> <p>See <xref href="GUID-AE165FD2-940F-38E6-9B77-8178ED0049F1.dita#GUID-AE165FD2-940F-38E6-9B77-8178ED0049F1/GUID-A7A81A1D-2187-3387-A359-6D3CE5E7FACA"><apiname>CSmlProfile::Protocol()</apiname></xref>.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>14</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Null Content provider.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is an
attempt to get a profile's Content provider information, when this has not
previously been set.</p> <p>See <xref href="GUID-AE165FD2-940F-38E6-9B77-8178ED0049F1.dita#GUID-AE165FD2-940F-38E6-9B77-8178ED0049F1/GUID-FB4D6104-4E3D-39B0-87AF-668B93506031"><apiname>CSmlProfile::AddTaskL()</apiname></xref> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>15</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Invalid Protocol.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is an attempt
to get a profile's transport protocol information, when the protocol does
not exist.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>16</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Null Controller member.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there is
an attempt to use one of the controller's members if it has not been initialized.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>17</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Controller Member Not Null.</p> <p>This panic is raised if there
is an attempt to use one of the controller members that should be null, e.g.
at the start of the sync.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>18</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Invalid Profile</p> <p>This panic is raised when trying to retrieve
a profile that does not exist.</p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody></concept>