<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task xml:lang="en" id="GUID-731CE582-91A4-59E0-9004-227FBCFC7D3F"><title>Packaging the Bluetooth GPS PSY in a SIS File</title><shortdesc>This describes how to package the Bluetooth PSY so it can be installed by a mobile device user. It is only necessary to install the PSY as a SIS file if it is not already installed in ROM by a device creator. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody><context><p>To install the Bluetooth GPS PSY on a phone it is necessary to create a SIS file. With Platform Security the software installer checks for the existence of a valid certificate along with the SIS file. </p> <p>For more information about the process of creating SIS files and package files see <xref href="GUID-0D88BB18-AF8C-5071-9B84-724073E53D21.dita">Software installation toolkit</xref>. </p> </context> <steps id="GUID-773E919E-665F-5880-9289-950581D93769"><step id="GUID-A1AFF666-BFF5-56E6-870C-8CED82BDECBD"><cmd>Create a package file that is used by the <codeph>makesis</codeph> tool. </cmd> <info>The following shows an example package file that contains details for installing the Bluetooth GPS PSY on a device supporting the S60 platform. The line beginning <codeph>(0x101F7961)</codeph> indicates that the PSY can be installed on phones supporting the S60 platform v3.0. </info> <info>If you want to install the PSY on other platforms you must change this line to include your own unique platform ID. </info> <stepxmp><codeblock id="GUID-54004ABB-5533-5D97-92B7-394732E19CA5" xml:space="preserve">
;
;Languages
&amp;EN
; UID is the app's UID
;
#{"Bluetooth GPS PSY"},(0x101FE99A),1,0,0
;
;Supports Series 60 v 3.0
(0x101F7961), 0, 0, 0, {"Series60ProductID"}

; Localised Vendor name
%{"Vendor-EN"}

; Unique Vendor name
:"Your name"


; Bluetooth GPS PSY and associated resource files 
"\Epoc32\data\z\resource\plugins\nlabtgpspsy.rsc" -"!:\resource\plugins\nlabtgpspsy.rsc"
"\Epoc32\release\armv5\urel\nlabtgpspsy.dll" -"!:\sys\bin\nlabtgpspsy.dll"
"\Epoc32\data\z\resource\nlabtgpspsyconstants.rsc" -"!:\resource\nlabtgpspsyconstants.rsc"
"\Epoc32\data\z\resource\nlabtgpspsy_name.rsc" -"!:\resource\nlabtgpspsy_name.rsc"
"\Epoc32\release\winscw\udeb\z\private\10202be9\101FE999.txt"-"!:\private\10202be9\import\101FE999.txt"

; Bluetooth GPS PSY Configuration library and cenrep file
"\Epoc32\release\armv5\urel\lbsbtgpsconfig.dll" -"!:\sys\bin\lbsbtgpsconfig.dll"
"\Epoc32\release\winscw\udeb\z\private\10202be9\102869C1.txt"-"!:\private\10202be9\import\102869C1.txt"
</codeblock> </stepxmp> </step> <step id="GUID-C28A542C-C17B-5F7B-85B9-3114BC446C72"><cmd>Create a SIS file called <codeph>BluetoothPSY.sis</codeph> (or a name of your choice) using the <codeph>makesis</codeph> tool. </cmd> <info>The <codeph>makesis</codeph> tool is available in <filepath>\epoc32\tools</filepath>. To create the SIS file, specify the filename of the package file and the name of the SIS file to be created. </info> <stepxmp><codeblock id="GUID-4BABD2D0-EF9C-59FA-B8F5-3C20A2813C36" xml:space="preserve">makesis.exe &lt;package file filename&gt; BluetoothPSY.sis</codeblock> </stepxmp> </step> <step id="GUID-63426EBD-FE17-5BDF-BB17-316A68323DE6"><cmd>Sign the SIS file using the <codeph>signsis</codeph> tool. </cmd> <info>The <codeph>signsis</codeph> tool is available in <filepath>\epoc32\tools</filepath>. To sign the SIS file, specify the input SIS file, the output SISX file, the certificate file used for signing and the certificate's private key file. </info> <stepxmp><codeblock id="GUID-56E53AC7-0D9E-50DA-BF0E-BBF46C92E38E" xml:space="preserve">signsis.exe BluetoothPSY.sis BluetoothPSY.sisx
                &lt;path&gt;\&lt;certificate file&gt; &lt;path&gt;\&lt;RSA Key file&gt; </codeblock> </stepxmp> </step> </steps> <result><p>The generated signed SIS file containing the PSY can be installed on a phone. </p> </result> </taskbody><related-links><link href="GUID-0D88BB18-AF8C-5071-9B84-724073E53D21.dita"><linktext>Software installation toolkit</linktext> </link> </related-links></task>