<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-B088B74A-9A6D-4C72-9069-391ECAD38514" xml:lang="en"><title>Communications
security</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Mobile devices support multiple communication methods, which in turn
sets high requirements for security. A mobile device with various connection
methods is exposed to a large number of attackers.</p>
<p>If you are developing a networked application, consider the following
scenarios and determine how to recover from them:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>The end user may lose network connection at any time or may
not be able to establish a connection at all.</p></li>
<li><p>A connection may pass over a public network, which may expose
the data if it is not encrypted during transmission.</p></li>
<li><p>Peer-to-peer connections are vulnerable to man-in-the-middle
attacks. To prevent this, use strong authentication and proper ciphering methods.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>For details on networking facilities, see the <xref href="http://www.forum.nokia.com/info/sw.nokia.com/id/c4536832-3dd0-45af-94be-1c4289cc3003/Symbian_OS_Overview_To_Networking_v1_0_en.pdf.html" scope="external">Symbian OS: Overview To Networking</xref> on Forum Nokia. For more information
about communication with a mobile device, see the <xref href="GUID-02EE9C85-5942-40F7-BF60-B5D8B04B9AA6.dita#GUID-02EE9C85-5942-40F7-BF60-B5D8B04B9AA6/GUID-15C32932-3088-4FC9-BE83-2EC00FCEB694">Communication</xref> section. </p>
<p>The following aspects of communication security are covered in this
section:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-C37790B3-967C-489C-8753-0434938CBE2B.dita">Secure
Sockets</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-FBB9ED48-3C0F-4B2D-90FC-52127698F253.dita">IPv4/IPv6
dual-stack</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-21F92FAD-1EF1-4E36-9157-9214E7C6BB01.dita">Host
name resolution</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-CD2BF0EE-5437-4ADA-A447-4B06147754A8.dita">Local
connectivity</xref></p></li>
</ul>
</conbody></concept>