<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-A825B62E-B5F6-5FDD-B267-E47103D57FD8"><title>Supported Image Formats Guide</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This document introduces you to the many Symbian supported data formats. </p> <section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The Symbian platform provides support for many audio, video and image formats as part of the Multimedia Framework out of the box to shorten development and integration by device manufactures, device implementors and application developers. </p> </section> <section><title>Architectural Relationship</title> <p>The formats described in this document form part of the Multimedia subsystem. </p> </section> <section><title>Description</title> <p>The symbian supported formats are as follows: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-202D682C-1AC5-5F5E-A1DE-549327889140"><p> <xref scope="external" href="http://local.wasp.uwa.edu.au/~pbourke/dataformats/bmp/">BMP</xref> This is an image file format used to store bitmap digital images, especially the form at used by Windows. It sometimes called as bitmap or DIB (device-independent bitmap) file format. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-BE48597E-0474-5A63-A3C8-6F3F70C5DBCE"><p> <xref scope="external" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GIF">GIF</xref> Graphics Interchange Format is a common file format licensed by Unisys. The first format of GIF was called as GIF87a, this is 8 bit single image with 256 colour level. And another updated GIF format is GIF89a, this is a multiple image format which support animation, transparency, and interlacing. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-B91C4EDA-9F4D-5E8B-8F9C-664CDA3E9CD8"><p> <xref scope="external" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JPEG">JPEG</xref> Joint Photographic Experts Group is an image format, approved by ISO (International Organization for Standardization ) and IEC (International Electrotechnical Commission ) group of experts to develop and maintain standards for a suite of compression algorithms for computer image files. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-2C692A77-85E3-5A12-A37C-B4DCD1D379BD"><p> <xref scope="external" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JPEG_File_Interchange_Format">JFIF</xref> JPEG File Interchange Format is a file format created by the Independent JPEG Group (IJG) for the transport of single JPEG-compressed images. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-A5EC68CE-C003-58C0-9682-0AAC73A968C3"><p> <xref scope="external" href="http://www.4neurons.com/other/mbm/mbm.html"> MBM</xref> MyBitmap (MBM) is a Symbian platform Bitmap format. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-A4B5410E-5112-55E2-909A-D53E06035CD6"><p> <xref scope="external" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PNG"> PNG</xref> Portable Network Graphics is an image format similar to the GIF format but with no licensing issues. This format is pronounced "ping". </p> </li> <li id="GUID-8309981D-0E24-5482-9676-F5F364D1D129"><p> <xref scope="external" href="http://www.faximum.com/manual.d/client.server.d/ref.57.html">TIFF/F</xref> Tagged Image File Format/Fax is an image format for fax transmission. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-AD2D29EA-3B67-5FE6-B8C1-9005ECD78914"><p> <xref scope="external" href="http://www.developershome.com/wap/wml/wmlImages.asp">WBMP</xref> Wireless Bitmap format is an image format for the WAP devices. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-AAFCDABC-93EC-5E9A-963D-6F1AD0DCCB82"><p> <xref scope="external" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exif"> EXIF</xref> Exchangeable image file format is specially used by digital cameras. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-8209C137-9217-5DFF-B1EF-BD79C536B8AF"><p> <xref scope="external" href="http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/ppm.html"> PPM</xref> Portable Pixel Map is an image format traditionally used on Unix systems. This is a lowest common denominator colour image file format. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-672AD90F-9D0A-5A90-A6BF-F0F3EDABB9F7"><p> <xref scope="external" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OTA_Bitmap"> OTA</xref> Over The Air bitmap format is an image format used for Short Message Service. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-30A219B9-4368-5F22-8466-60D2C9E39469"><p> <xref scope="external" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ICO_%28icon_image_file_format%29">ICO</xref> Icon Image File Format is mainly used for icons. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-12376969-E2F7-5FAF-A1A8-62025EE92666"><p> <xref scope="external" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Metafile">WMF</xref> Windows Metafile Format is mainly used for GIF and JPEG vector graphics formats. </p> </li> </ul> <p>For more information about the decoder / the encoder supported image formats, see <xref href="GUID-88091838-03FC-550F-9A3D-DA70907EF955.dita#GUID-88091838-03FC-550F-9A3D-DA70907EF955/GUID-B7129F68-719C-5C6A-A842-E8ACA71980E4">Supported Image Format For Encoder / Decoder</xref>  </p> </section> <section><title>Using Supported Formats</title> <p>The Supported Formats are used for the following: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-E39F4E3D-3050-5F91-9197-2A08DB5D0960"><p>JPEG and TIFF image formats are used for the colour sampling and the quality factor information. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-12F98C3F-F0AE-5D84-81DB-D127B84CC7BA"><p>GIF image format is used for the background colour information. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-F184BBDA-03B8-543D-A83F-99E23DEF257C"><p>MBM, PNG and ICO image formats are used for holding the image frame data information. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-E23FC23F-0565-54F0-B87A-FD40E29783AF"><p>BMP image format is used for holding the bits per pixel information and the compression information. It is only used when configuring the BMP encoder. </p> </li> </ul> </section> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-88091838-03FC-550F-9A3D-DA70907EF955.dita"><linktext>Imaging Frameworks Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-3D9C4B45-EEA0-581C-A9E5-8B2535014930.dita"><linktext>Image Conversion Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-6914EA3D-6FAB-52DD-A159-990F4ED892A2.dita"><linktext>Image Transform Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-27220B08-B2E7-5106-9BCC-C86938D3E37D.dita"><linktext>Image Display Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-C0B39D73-0A3C-5289-A774-7BE590037404.dita"><linktext>Bitmap Transform overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-257E223F-1612-5978-982A-38DE8E08211C.dita"><linktext> Gifscaler Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-08304A3F-4331-5936-984E-74A1F35905B8.dita"><linktext>Media Client Image Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-6DC34798-86CE-537D-B3B8-9A94FF77B283.dita"><linktext>Image Encoding Tutorial</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-B10B048F-37FF-53E7-92B9-83F8C197566A.dita"><linktext>Image Decoding Tutorial</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>