<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-FF6846AA-7E8B-40DC-B6EC-32A8550F4942" xml:lang="en"><title>Using
Carbide.c++ and P.I.P.S.</title><shortdesc/><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>To be able to use P.I.P.S. and Carbide.c++ efficiently, perform the following
steps:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Define the system include files required by P.I.P.S.. This is done
in the <uicontrol>System Options</uicontrol> view in the <uicontrol>Project
Properties</uicontrol> window.</p></li>
<li><p>Specify the needed P.I.P.S. libraries:<ul>
<li><p><filepath>libc.lib</filepath> must always be specified.</p></li>
<li><p>Libraries must be specified for all build configurations.</p></li>
</ul>  </p></li>
</ul>
<note>The include paths for P.I.P.S. headers must be specified as well as
the used P.I.P.S. libraries. </note>
<note>This must be done for all possible build configurations.</note>
<section id="GUID-140C883C-819A-472A-8759-26566A62941C">       <title>Inclusion
of <filepath>libc.lib</filepath> in the MMP file</title><p><filepath>libc.lib</filepath> must
be included in the MMP file for both the <codeph>WINSCW</codeph> as well as
the target. The code will compile and link for <codeph>WINSCW</codeph> even
if <filepath>libc.lib</filepath> is not mentioned in the MMP file, but will
fail during execution. If <filepath>libc.lib</filepath> is not mentioned in
the MMP file for the target, the code will compile but will fail during linking.</p> 
   </section>
<section id="GUID-DB21F39C-8FF9-47BF-BC56-8599F22F330E"><title>Order of the <codeph>SYSTEMINCLUDE</codeph> in
the MMP file</title><p>Carbide.c++ 1.1 does not take into account the header
file inclusion order as mentioned in the MMP file. This is a typical scenario
when the user needs the headers from both P.I.P.S. and <filepath>estlib.lib</filepath>.
Although, the order of the <codeph>SYSTEMINCLUDE</codeph> in the MMP file
is:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">epoc32\include\stdapis
epoc32\include\libc </codeblock><p><filepath>epoc32\include\libc</filepath> will
be included first followed by <filepath>epoc32\include\stdapis</filepath>.
(It might be included on the basis of alphabetical order). </p><p>This issue
can be resolved by manually changing the project properties in carbide.c++
IDE. In order to change the <uicontrol>Project Properties</uicontrol> in Carbide.c++
IDE:</p><ol>
<li id="GUID-E280C86C-F29C-45E2-BCA1-A0161790578A"><p>Go to <uicontrol>Project</uicontrol>.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-BED1ED11-BB1B-4C08-B4AD-ABF043A69955"><p>Click on <uicontrol>Property</uicontrol>.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-F0A81703-9804-4A5C-8D25-FBF266AF2382"><p>Click on <uicontrol>C
\C++. Build</uicontrol> and choose the <uicontrol>ToolSettings</uicontrol> Tab </p></li>
</ol></section>
<section id="GUID-7DCA8B26-BC6F-4709-AA45-6316F0B5CEDB"><title>Suppressing
"illegal implicit conversion error"</title><p>The code that makes use of implicit
pointer casts will not compile with the <codeph>WINSCW</codeph> compiler.
The compilation breaks with "illegal implicit conversion error". However,
the same code will compile with GCC compiler. A work around for this problem
without changing the code is to define a pragma.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>