<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="GUID-4462E8C8-CF27-5F3B-ACE3-4213DA6C377C" xml:lang="en"><title>certtool
Reference</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><refbody>
<section><p>Type <codeph>certtool</codeph> at the command prompt to get a
list of commands that you can use with the tool. </p> <p>To access more information
about a specific command, the <codeph>list</codeph> command for example, type: </p> <p><userinput>certtool
–h list</userinput> </p> </section>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title> <p><userinput>certtool<parmname>[OPTIONS]</parmname> </userinput> </p> <p>The
following is a summary of commands available to use with certool. </p> <table id="GUID-4A334325-33FD-5CEE-80FB-29242F6CCC31">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Full command</entry>
<entry>Shortened command</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-liststores </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>-ls</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Lists the available certstore implementations. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-list</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph> -l</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Lists the content of the certstore. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-import </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>-i</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Imports certificates in the certstore. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-remove </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>-r</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Removes a certificate from the certstore. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-addapps </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>-a</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Adds applications to those a certificate is trusted for. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-setapps</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p><codeph>-s </codeph></p> </entry>
<entry><p>Sets the applications for which a certificate is trusted, for example,
software install, TLS and so on.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-removeapps</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>n/a</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Removes applications from those a certificate is trusted for. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </refsyn>
<section><note>Long commands, for example <codeph>liststores</codeph>, <codeph>list</codeph>, <codeph>addapps</codeph>, <codeph>setapps</codeph> and <codeph>removeapps</codeph> are not case-sensitive but short commands, for example <codeph>-ls</codeph>, <codeph>-l</codeph>, <codeph>-a</codeph>,<codeph>-s</codeph> and <codeph>-rk</codeph> are case sensitive.</note> <p>If the
commands are given incorrectly or in the wrong sequence, for example <codeph>certtool
-store -l</codeph> or <codeph>certtool -i -l</codeph>, the tool displays the
default general help command. </p> <p>In interactive mode, any command called
with the <codeph>-p</codeph> option, displays screen full of details and waits
for key input. In non-interactive mode, the option is omitted. </p> </section>
<example id="GUID-6E87B789-3F2D-5306-987E-195ECA603DFF"><title>certtool example</title> <p>To
read commands from an “inputfile” and give the output in “outputfile”, use
the following command: </p> <p><userinput>Certool &lt;inputfile&gt; &lt;outputfile&gt;</userinput> </p> <p>The
file name should be mentioned with the path. If the tool cannot open the “inputfile”
or cannot create the output file, it will turn to interactive mode and display
the general help command. The input file can contain multiple commands but
each command should be separated by a new line character. </p> </example>
</refbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-9F1EF48F-8AA7-5235-B96C-4A02CAC0422F.dita"><linktext>certtool
Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-8A80DD04-075D-5CF2-9A70-F6DDDD7D54BC.dita"><linktext>certtool
Tutorials</linktext></link>
</related-links></reference>