<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-9A5D0303-6C22-53A1-86DA-0431F726010B" xml:lang="en"><title>Messaging
Dependencies</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The following are the major dependencies of other subsystems on the Messaging
subsystem: </p>
<ul>
<li id="GUID-E2E94CC5-C780-5B7C-8DC9-9CC4D4FF5853"><p> <b>File server:</b> needs
to be able to clone open file handles. This allow processes to access files
in another process’s data cages area. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2FE4E644-AA53-524E-9420-419F19515CC5"><p> <b>Task scheduler:</b> needs
to store the capabilities of the process that creates a schedule within the
task information for that schedule. The task scheduler must data cage the
schedule information. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0BAF2FEE-3D7E-58DF-A159-8F5F47B3307E"><p> <b>Kernel:</b> a process
needs to be able to obtain the Secure ID (SID) (that is allocated by the kernel
to a process) and capabilities of the process that started it. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C5550F67-A0B1-5564-B83C-573EBB8A6DA5"><p> <b>Application Architecture:</b> ability
to launch an application by passing an open file handle that can then be used
by the launched application. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-386D0E24-24C6-5464-88E4-517C821B26DA"><p> <b>Central repository:</b> ability
to assign different security capabilities to settings within a repository,
and to be able to guarantee committing multiple settings. This can be either
as APIs to set an array of settings or as APIs to store settings in memory
and provide a commit to disk API. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A169571C-CFCB-52E3-A820-3FAE33623C95"><p> <b>ESock:</b> hosts
the service-providing protocol modules and network interfaces. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-931E092A-C043-51FA-BE78-136FCC849882"><p> <b>ETel:</b> a telephony
server to provide a generic interface to initiate, control, and terminate
telephone calls. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-5947368C-87C3-54AA-B8C8-5C529CA25627"><p> <b>SQL:</b> a component
that provides an SQL database service. </p> </li>
</ul>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-4CEB52EC-8F08-53B7-A900-AF163316D442.dita"><linktext>Messaging
Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-5E8AA6B6-38EB-5347-BA30-F9FF4BF7C107.dita#GUID-5E8AA6B6-38EB-5347-BA30-F9FF4BF7C107/GUID-10265557-F31B-50B3-A955-A548A5A78D7B">
<linktext>Operating with the SQL database</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>