<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-7FB63DAA-FBFD-4485-919F-5FEFBBC53B97" xml:lang="en"><title>SMP Tools Overview</title><shortdesc>Describes the tools that are available for debugging on
an SMP platform.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-E46EE0B4-87B8-4934-89CB-733E161CED1F"><title>Open
System Trace (OST)</title><p>This tool is used to monitor the path
of thread execution. It does this by logging of messages and variable
values to a log file for later analysis.</p><p>For more information,
see <xref href="GUID-1929856D-5C74-55F2-8B61-48F891A3B3BB.dita">Trace</xref> and Carbide Tools &gt; Trace in Carbide Help.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-5D3FB1F4-4190-4395-9252-130C5D4F6029"><title>Performance
Investigator</title><p>This tool is used to monitor the performance.
It is very useful for detecting performance bottlenecks. It comes
in the form of a Carbide plugin.</p><p>For more information, see<xref href="GUID-E714801A-B7A3-4240-805C-35CD202963AC.dita">How to use PI Profiler
with PlatSim</xref>, the <xref href="http://s60wiki.nokia.com/S60Wiki/PIProfiler.dita">PI wiki</xref> and
Performance Investigator User Guide in Carbide Help.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-16455E57-AA10-48DA-A979-BEB4C856FC9D"><title>MemSpy</title><p>This tool is used to monitor memory usage. It is especially useful
for detecting memory leaks.</p><p>However, the output from the present
version of the Memory Analysis tool does not hold information about
which CPU is accessing the memory.</p><p>For more information, see<xref href="GUID-958D9E07-D5B8-49A1-BAE2-D7421E09F566.dita">MemSpy</xref>, the <xref href="http://s60wiki.nokia.com/S60Wiki/Memspy.dita">MemSpy wiki</xref>,
and Carbide Tools &gt; MemSpy in Carbide Help.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-9174410A-CA3A-4B64-A603-FA94F7336FC8"><title>Standard
Test Framework (STIF)</title><p>This is the standard test framework
for executing large number of repetitive tests. The framework comes
in the form of test scripts. This tool is used extensively for regression
testing.</p><p>For more information, see the <xref href="http://s60wiki.nokia.com/S60Wiki/STIF.dita">STIF wiki</xref> and
Carbide Tools &gt; STIF in Carbide Help.</p><note><p>This tool is for
internal use only.</p></note></section>
<section id="GUID-68F190E7-4E10-4DEF-8660-D93ED5B79477"><title>Crazy
Scheduler</title><p>This tool is used to test if code will work in
an environment where there is no thread priority. It can also be used
to test the effect of a delay when a thread moves from one state to
another.</p><p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-3D5974E9-0F6C-4BBE-AD41-C405DC286C09.dita">SMP Crazy Scheduler</xref>.</p><note><p> When executing in crazy delay mode, this tool can
slow the system down.</p></note></section>
<section id="GUID-6BC1C33D-9349-46C4-977E-B2E2EE5A75F6"><title>Load
Generator</title><p>This tool is used to simulate the effect of heavy
processing on the platform.</p><p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-70C7DC8B-9E52-406C-B990-B19CEC362E5A.dita">Load Generator</xref> and the <xref href="http://s60wiki.nokia.com/S60Wiki/Load_Generator.dita">Load Generator wiki</xref>.</p><note><p>This tool is for internal
use only.</p></note></section>
<section id="GUID-D6B1F2FE-2032-4748-8D52-DA6E367EBA4C"><title>External
tools</title><p>In addition to the above tools, both Lauterbach and
ARM produce hardware debugging tools that can be used on an SMP platform.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>