<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-B454C08F-0531-5789-ABFA-171D3C2319D9"><title>Automatic Speech Recognition Client Utility Overview </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This document provides an overview of the Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) Client Utility. </p> <section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The ASR Client Utility provides speech recognition services. </p> <p><b>ASR Client Utility Library Details</b> </p> <p>The DLL that provides the functionality and the library to which your code must link is identified below. </p> <table id="GUID-19EA9049-D28E-5097-9190-C02672EC8BEC"><tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><thead><row><entry>DLL</entry> <entry>LIB</entry> <entry>Short Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <b>speechrecognitionutility.dll</b>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <b> speechrecognitionutility.lib</b>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>These files are used for implementing the ASR Client Utility. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> <section><title>Architectural Relationship</title> <p>The ASR Client Utility provides the interface between clients and the Multimedia Framework. The ASR Client Utility uses ASR Custom Commands and ASR Data Handling to provide clients with speech recognition functionality. </p> </section> <section><title>Description</title> <p>The ASR Client Utility provides speech recognition services for clients requiring speech recognition functionality. </p> </section> <section><title>Key ASR Client Utility Classes</title> <p>The speech recognition functionality provided by the ASR Client Utility is contained within the following key classes: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-BE9AA45C-99F6-5D9D-9A7B-02D47F29D227"><p> <xref href="GUID-EC7AB5C3-CA05-32F9-BF4F-629289123B05.dita"><apiname>CSpeechRecognitionUtility</apiname></xref> - main class of the ASR Client Utility. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>Using the ASR Client Utility</title> <p>Clients can use the ASR Client Utility to: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-6A83459B-4A8F-57B1-BA9C-9F90445944C0"><p>Create a new lexicon. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-0B43288E-8E21-5235-A321-56BDCA55C0BC"><p>Create a new grammar. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-4627E2A4-E484-5ABD-86B8-C0E15F01E94E"><p>Add a new entry into the lexicon </p> </li> <li id="GUID-3E8EFE1D-1770-518F-860C-A62BE0CB2FFF"><p>Add a new rule into the grammar. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-EEA0F3B2-CB56-543B-8161-D05DEB870C24"><p>Record user utterance. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-E1FB7E3C-39C1-5397-8FF8-BFAAD291FE1A"><p>Playback user utterance. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>See Also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-F684F363-B361-5868-9195-41305428AB2D.dita">Automatic Speech Recognition Data Handling Overview</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-DC4BF172-CDD3-5351-BBA1-550DEC1706BD.dita">Automatic Speech Recognition Custom Commands Overview</xref>  </p> </section> </conbody></concept>