<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-5F46B075-B76D-40C4-A694-0B1786818699" xml:lang="en"><title>Configuring
the LBS Root Repository Initialisation File (Optional)</title><shortdesc>This topic describes how to configure LBS so that the Privacy Controller
is started when a privacy request is received and LBS is in the Standalone
Privacy Mode configuration. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Implementing an observer class that derives from <xref href="GUID-BF88837F-1ADC-3DB2-98E5-CFBF75E2BE86.dita"><apiname>MLbsPrivacyObserver2</apiname></xref> causes
the licensee Privacy Controller to receive notification of an LBS subsystem
shutdown so that it may free resources and then shut itself down. However
this does not cause the Privacy Controller to be automatically started when
the LBS subsystem is started (for example when a privacy request is received
and the LBS subsystem is configured in the Standalone Privacy Mode configuration).
    </p>
<p><i>LBS Root</i> is the process with responsibility for starting and monitoring
all the other processes that are part of the LBS subsystem. LBS Root uses
the Symbian platform Central Repository to store the identities of the processes
that it manages. In order to start the Privacy Controller when LBS starts,
it is necessary to record the UID (secure ID) of the Privacy Controller process
in the LBS Root Central Repository initialisation file.     </p>
<p>The LBS Root repository initialisation source file is stored in the LBS
source tree at <filepath>&lt;source_dir&gt;\LBS\lbsroot\group\10282266.txt</filepath> (the
binary file <filepath>10282266.cre</filepath> is stored at the same location). </p>
<note>The Privacy Controller UID must only be added to the LBSRoot repository
initialisation file when the LBS subsystem is in the Standalone Privacy Mode
configuration. For the <xref href="GUID-A898867E-0C50-583E-979F-132504C24C9A.dita">Full
LBS configuration</xref> (in which the LBS subsystem is started on device
startup in order to be able to handle emergency requests) a licensee should
use a different method of starting their Privacy Controller, such as the System
Starter component.   For the Full LBS configuration it is not the responsibility
of LBS Root to ensure that the Privacy Controller remains available to handle
privacy requests. </note>
<p>For details about how to configure the LBS Root repository file see the <xref href="GUID-D18B4715-3942-52EA-9D2F-E145037FA47A.dita">LBS Integration and Configuration
Guide</xref>. </p>
</conbody></concept>