<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-B5BA3CB6-F2B8-524B-BF99-545AAE81549A" xml:lang="en"><title>Message
Stores</title><shortdesc>The SMS stack uses the following stores to store a complete message. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-0754BD99-4FFF-5AC2-8E33-7E3B897C03D0"><title>Segmentation
and reassembly (SAR) stores</title> <p>The SMS messages are sent as PDUs and
all the PDUs are required to display the message to the user. The PDUs should
be stored until all the PDUs are received by the device. The SMS stack stores
the incomplete message PDUs in message stores for persistence storage. The
segmentation store and the reassembly store are both created by the GSMU DLL.
The message stores are also used to store the WAP datagrams. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-B9382772-FC6F-3A90-AF3B-218A299D64C3.dita"><apiname>TSAREntry</apiname></xref> provides
information that is useful for the clients to segment and reassemble the SMS
messages and WAP datagrams. TSAREntry provides information about the reference,
total number of parts and the index of the parts of the complete message or
datagram. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-B9382772-FC6F-3A90-AF3B-218A299D64C3.dita"><apiname>TSAREntry</apiname></xref> class also provides get and
set methods for four non generic data items in a message. </p> <p>The <xref href="GUID-349FD476-1D50-3D6A-8023-7CBB7DE4821F.dita"><apiname>CSARStore</apiname></xref> provides
the methods to create the SAR stores and store the information useful for
segmentation and reassembly. The <xref href="GUID-349FD476-1D50-3D6A-8023-7CBB7DE4821F.dita"><apiname>CSARStore</apiname></xref> contains a permanent
store and a list of <xref href="GUID-B9382772-FC6F-3A90-AF3B-218A299D64C3.dita"><apiname>TSAREntry</apiname></xref> elements. The member functions
of the <xref href="GUID-349FD476-1D50-3D6A-8023-7CBB7DE4821F.dita"><apiname>CSARStore</apiname></xref> allow the client applications to create
a new store, add an entry, update an entry and delete the store. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-860AC34F-AD6A-5F01-86E9-B76DE3F9ADF3"><title>Segmentation
store</title> <p>The <xref href="GUID-349FD476-1D50-3D6A-8023-7CBB7DE4821F.dita"><apiname>CSARStore</apiname></xref> creates the segmentation
store as <codeph>smssegst.dat</codeph>. The SMS message is split into individual
PDUs before sending them to the network. The segmentation store is used to
store the PDUs. The segmentation store enables the client applications to
receive the status report of the PDUs. </p> <p><b>Segmentation store data </b> </p> <p>The clients can implement segmentation
store using <xref href="GUID-7907447F-BFAC-3916-AEC0-90AD5DF426DD.dita"><apiname>CSmsSegmentationStore</apiname></xref> class. <xref href="GUID-07379C99-2BE4-316F-8CE1-5AFB9C0AA23C.dita"><apiname>CSegmentationStore</apiname></xref> is
derived from <xref href="GUID-349FD476-1D50-3D6A-8023-7CBB7DE4821F.dita"><apiname>CSARStore</apiname></xref>. The segmentation store is generally
used to store <codeph>SUBMIT</codeph> and <codeph>COMMAND</codeph> PDUs. The
PDUs are stored as additional stream ID in the store. Each stream ID contains
the SMS address, SMS message and an array of status reference items. The segmentation
store creates a log of all sent and unsent PDUs with a log ID. The SMS stack
uses the log ID to resend the message PDUs which failed. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-C48FFB78-1C80-5ECE-A19F-DE98A1814C25"><title>Reassembly
store</title> <p>The <xref href="GUID-349FD476-1D50-3D6A-8023-7CBB7DE4821F.dita"><apiname>CSARStore</apiname></xref> class creates the reassembly
store as <codeph>smsreast.dat</codeph> . The reassembly store is used to individual
PDUs when received from the network. Once all the PDUs of a message are received
they are reassembled by the SMS stack. A complete message is then created,
the message is ready for the client applications. </p> <p><b>Reassembly store data </b> </p> <p>The clients can implement the reassembly
store using <xref href="GUID-1100B8E0-0006-35B4-B15C-989F3B0030B6.dita"><apiname>CSmsReassemblyStore</apiname></xref> class. The <xref href="GUID-E4E30D66-BCD0-3002-9A02-6B3EF7BF39A4.dita"><apiname>CSmsReassembly</apiname></xref> class
is derived from CSARStore. The <xref href="GUID-1100B8E0-0006-35B4-B15C-989F3B0030B6.dita"><apiname>CSmsReassemblyStore</apiname></xref> class
provides methods that can be used by the client applications to search for
a PDU, update a existing PDU, clear the store and compact the store. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-C641C3FE-43B8-52CA-936A-5B3741C99894"><title>Class 0 reassembly
store</title> <p>The normal SMS store are not designed to handle Class 0 SMS.
A new class 0 reassembly store is available to handle the class 0 SMS messages
in out of disk conditions. The class 0 reassembly store contains two stores
1) A permanent file store and 2) Pre-allocated file store. The pre allocated
file store is reserved exclusively for the class 0 SMS. The pre-allocated
file store can be <xref href="GUID-266B3FD6-A414-599D-BF31-FF67ADDD4E70.dita">configured</xref> to
reserve for pre-defined number of PDUs. The pre-allocated store can only be
configured by the licensees of Symbian platform. In normal conditions the
message PDUs are stored in the permanent file store. In out of disk conditions
it is not possible to delete older PDUs in the permanent files store. The
SMS stack uses the pre-allocated store during the out of disk conditions.
When the number of PDUs exceed the specified level in the ESK file, the SMS
stack deleted the older PDUs to clear up space for the new incoming PDUs.
The pre-allocated file store cannot be used to store other class/ type of
SMS messages. <xref href="GUID-F701D74D-6BC8-337C-AF36-971CDD8E5F7D.dita"><apiname>CClass0SmsReassemblyStore</apiname></xref> store provides
the required methods for the clients to use the class 0 reassembly store.
The class 0 reassembly store provides the same functionality as the reassembly
store. The additional functionality is that the client applications are able
to process an incomplete message and display it to the users. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>