<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-E7C55048-5B7A-5BF2-B7F4-4D731659B88C-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1" xml:lang="en"><title>Device
Driver Writing and Migration Technology Tutorial</title><shortdesc>Explains techniques for writing device drivers on data paged systems
and migrating device drivers to data paged systems. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-8629C08B-C1C8-4435-962A-A57F11EB25CF-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1"><title>Impact of data
paging on kernel APIs</title> <p>The use of data paging impacts on the task
of writing and migrating device drivers in two main ways: the preconditions
for kernel API calls and the performance of the kernel APIs. </p> <p>Firstly,
kernel APIs which access user memory may only be called subject to preconditions.
The preconditions are that </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-81B56316-97C6-5EE8-BD88-D0741F9301F9-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-4-1"><p>no fast mutex may be
held while calling them, and </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-507412E1-1CA8-5590-B974-809B51C3D79D-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-4-2"><p>no kernel mutex may
be held while calling them. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>The APIs are these: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-7A4E9152-8BFA-515E-A115-265436C843F4-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-1"><p> <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-C154A151-0DF7-345D-9A10-E9B1CF3400D9"><apiname>Kern::KUDesInfo</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3C31D5D3-48E9-5D6D-8489-8259D98BF117-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-2"><p> <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-FAFAA120-AA28-32FD-9202-1534C3148026"><apiname>Kern::InfoCopy</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-FCE0C3D6-EE49-5AC9-856E-9833D22D541A-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-3"><p> <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-B79007D0-FF1F-30E7-986D-7CEBC5E45102"><apiname>Kern::KUDesGet</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-72D4E609-B189-570A-B4D6-D2F4F1289EC1-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-4"><p> <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-CDEA7B22-9520-3DB1-AA04-1289C2287936"><apiname>Kern::KUDesPut</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-EE2D8F45-5B12-5D69-A9FD-7ED47A0B5EAD-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-5"><p> <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-94F2DF65-87A5-32C6-9695-9557E5832ACF"><apiname>Kern::KUDesSetLength</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-46805316-D1D5-5477-8287-FBF43DD8D3C4-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-6"><p> <xref href="GUID-EE4CB2B4-EAFC-3721-BF0D-ECDF96C29FBF.dita"><apiname>umemget</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-E569834D-8960-3D4E-8980-64902200D4F8.dita"><apiname>kumemget</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-388FF557-3092-3EA0-BF4A-D73504521CD0.dita"><apiname>umemget32</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-874BB607-F0CA-3123-AB2D-D04F4763B16A.dita"><apiname>kumemget32</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DB8BF5C7-2444-5B8F-8F66-12383ECB6A81-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-7"><p> <xref href="GUID-71B53E34-1F41-3B53-8133-D76D8847D143.dita"><apiname>umemput</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-7B0CC157-0EF6-3CF5-BAF2-D8227F7734A5.dita"><apiname>kumemput</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-A6303814-456F-3583-86B0-A99EA5C3E5A4.dita"><apiname>umemput32</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-B00A6392-9A90-357E-B6A2-D2762800C2C5.dita"><apiname>kumemput32</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9E6B180A-B360-58A6-B60E-8605E22F2C2E-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-8"><p> <xref href="GUID-BBF5941C-3369-3B56-A560-6E80A7CFFE0F.dita"><apiname>umemset</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-08C2BCA6-6842-3D10-AB56-835B618317F9.dita"><apiname>kumemset</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-B48B5214-ACDD-3E9B-AE07-1B40F645D959.dita"><apiname>umemset32</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-5C1EB135-F9A7-37A5-B256-299CB9598DA9.dita"><apiname>kumemset32</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F307081B-7672-5C3F-869C-9B4B4F55CE62-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-9"><p> <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-D0FCFD5B-2814-3D81-A54A-9E2FA226019B"><apiname>Kern::RequestComplete</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-647B36DF-2124-5252-824E-E100695624C2-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-10"><p> <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-589188FC-48E8-3973-B88B-D9E47CFE4403"><apiname>Kern::ThreadRawRead</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9776CFD1-B061-5FC1-B100-0A55D7E8BFA5-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-11"><p> <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-68BFCE22-E05E-3710-9014-6E72FDE7891F"><apiname>Kern::ThreadRawWrite</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-21F695FF-8933-5FF4-84DC-1F09056E36A6-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-12"><p> <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-451FD979-14A8-3301-A389-7B509C969FE9"><apiname>Kern::ThreadDesRead</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B477D969-B73E-514B-8E40-565EE6C4490E-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-13"><p> <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-B4A7AF78-179A-378B-9184-CCC2E31830F5"><apiname>Kern::ThreadDesWrite</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C8080F75-2F3B-5DBE-B0DE-D8518ED49516-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-14"><p> <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-6668EA8F-AA55-3CB4-ADEA-879579E94729"><apiname>Kern::ThreadGetDesLength</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8D644BB0-9A01-5248-8DD2-95CDAE058B09-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-15"><p> <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-53813A59-7CED-39E2-818A-D9E0374D2BFD"><apiname>Kern::ThreadGetDesMaxLength</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-746E54A0-C6D0-5B90-89F3-D197DD04470C-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-1-6-16"><p> <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-60E5E01D-2965-3E33-BC05-052A575303F8"><apiname>Kern::ThreadGetDesInfo</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-8C767668-D568-40E4-82F7-DD6FC6EA8132-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-2"><title>Impact of data
paging on execution</title> <p>Device drivers use kernel side APIs to access
user memory, and even when they are called in accordance with their preconditions
they are no longer guaranteed to execute in a short and bounded time. This
is because they may access paged memory and incur page faults which propagate
from one thread to another. This document discusses how to mitigate the impact
of data paging on device drivers. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-3903425C-EA48-44D6-B65E-253F583465BF-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-3"><title>Mitigating
data paging: general principles</title> <p>Three general principles are involved
in mitigating the impact of data paging on device drivers. </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-955ACDFA-CA71-5489-920F-B2F74039EA37-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-3-3-1"><p>Device drivers should
not use shared DFC queues. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3FD4823A-C1A0-53B2-8987-45313BC984C3-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-3-3-2"><p>Device drivers should,
as far as possible, not access paged memory. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3557B245-D479-5FA3-B039-092A8F1B7E06-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-3-3-3"><p>If a device driver needs
to access paged memory, it should do so in the context of the client thread. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-BE00235A-D227-4290-B3FA-93B20966073F-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-4"><title>Driver frameworks</title> <p>There
are three main categories of device driver: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-EAD164EF-A615-5AFE-A512-032C1C0CC0AC-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-4-3-1"><p><b>Boot-Loaded Non-Channel
Drivers</b></p><p>Boot loaded drivers are built as kernel extensions. They
are typically simple device drivers such as keyboard drivers with limited
or no client side interface and are not much impacted by data paging. It is
generally safe for them to pass data structures using the HAL in the context
of a kernel thread and for them to execute in the context of a kernel thread:
however, this assumption must always be verified for individual cases. </p></li>
<li id="GUID-B82465B7-6306-5AAC-B6B4-FB5A4D07EBB2-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-4-3-2"><p><b>Media Drivers</b> </p><p>Media
drivers are both channel based drivers and kernel extensions. When written
according to the recommended model they either execute wholly in the context
of their clients or use a unique DFC queue and associated kernel thread. If
these recommendations are followed, no additional measures to mitigate the
impact of data paging are required. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-86AB0CC9-B147-5019-837C-B2A6B32A9F6B-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-4-3-3"><p><b>Dynamically loaded
channel based IO device drivers</b> </p><p>Channel based IO device drivers
are based on various models: all are dynamically loaded. They are derived
either from <xref href="GUID-E7550422-5121-3393-A85E-BB797969CD2A.dita"><apiname>DLogicalChannelBase</apiname></xref> or <xref href="GUID-A3CC1D95-4681-3349-A67C-F113A614041D.dita"><apiname>DLogicalChannel</apiname></xref>.
  </p><p>Channel based drivers derived from <xref href="GUID-E7550422-5121-3393-A85E-BB797969CD2A.dita"><apiname>DLogicalChannelBase</apiname></xref> usually
execute in the context of their client, mitigating the impact of data paging.
Where they are multi-threaded, they typically create separate and unique kernel
threads and do not use shared DFC queues, mitigating the impact of data paging:
if they use a shared DFC queue and associated kernel thread, they are impacted
by data paging and must be written so as to mitigate the effects.  Channel
based drivers derived from <xref href="GUID-A3CC1D95-4681-3349-A67C-F113A614041D.dita"><apiname>DLogicalChannel</apiname></xref> may communicate
with the hardware directly (LDD to hardware) or indirectly (LDD to PDD to
hardware). If a PDD is involved, mitigation of data paging should take place
at that level and not the LDD.   Channel based drivers may have single or
multiple clients, channels and hardware. It is these drivers which require
most work to mitigate the impact of data paging. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-6CD39776-B448-4F7D-8EC2-727AF13B575B-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5"><title>Mitigation
techniques</title> <p>The impact of data paging on device drivers is mitigated
by the use of various different techniques which are the subject of the rest
of this document. </p> <p><b>Passing
data by value</b> </p> <p>Clients should pass data by value not as pointers.
Return values of calls should be return codes not data. </p> <p><b>Using dedicated DFC queues</b> </p> <p>All drivers which use DFCs should
use a dedicated DFC queue to service them. You should not use the kernel queues <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-96588DB1-6884-300F-A85B-EA14A8A1BFAD"><apiname>Kern::DfcQue0</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-7B1F53D8-7EC2-3A05-9F1B-240550A7283B"><apiname>Kern::DfcQue1</apiname></xref> for this purpose. How you create a dedicated DFC queue depends on the nature
of the driver. </p> <p>To service boot loaded drivers and media drivers, you
create a DFC queue by calling <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-F8D26F25-FBFB-3D89-9A80-95719D165C8E"><apiname>Kern::DfcQueueCreate()</apiname></xref>. </p> <p>To
service dynamically loaded drivers derived from DLogicalChannelBase you call <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-ED1B8C3D-ABFB-37BD-A6E9-4080FCCE115C"><apiname>Kern::DynamicDfcQCreate()</apiname></xref> with
a <xref href="GUID-D9111A26-FAA3-3D8E-AB41-5B1263FABB6A.dita"><apiname>TDynamicDfcQue</apiname></xref> as argument: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-73C0C08A-6BAC-5526-A987-57079ED762E7-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-9" xml:space="preserve">TInt Kern::DynamicDfcQCreate(TDynamicDfcQue*&amp; aDfcQ, TInt aPriority, const TDesC&amp; aBaseName);</codeblock> <p>To service a dynamically loaded driver derived from <xref href="GUID-A3CC1D95-4681-3349-A67C-F113A614041D.dita"><apiname>DLogicalChannel</apiname></xref>,
you use the DFC queue supplied with it (the member <xref href="GUID-954F5891-8BF3-33B2-9F40-9D80A6D2A17C.dita"><apiname>iDfc</apiname></xref>,
accessed by pointer). To use the queue you call the <xref href="GUID-2FC8CE8F-102C-3025-86B6-C903D26CD002.dita"><apiname>SetDfcQ()</apiname></xref> function
during the second phase construction of the LDD. </p> <p>You destroy queues
by calling their function <xref href="GUID-38F49D2C-2798-37DB-82CC-A49EAB22B829.dita"><apiname>Destroy()</apiname></xref> which also terminates
the associated thread. </p> <p><b>Setting
realtime state</b> </p> <p>The realtime state of a thread determines whether
it is enabled to access paged memory. If a thread is realtime (its realtime
state is on) it is guaranteed not to access paged memory, so avoiding unpredictable
delays. The realtime state of a thread may be set to <xref href="GUID-0AD1C6D1-591E-3ED2-A4AA-2486A37AE5CE.dita"><apiname>ERealtimeStateOn</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-19425C4A-0B5F-3D89-B5C9-C5DB7E984D7F.dita"><apiname>ERealtimeStateOff</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-2AB828E6-39A5-377C-87B1-FA0CB886E2D7.dita"><apiname>ERealtimeStateWarn</apiname></xref> as defined in the enumeration <xref href="GUID-C9606015-7E55-338D-BE81-42AF50980F59.dita"><apiname>TThreadRealtimeState</apiname></xref> and
set by the kernel function <xref href="GUID-802BE082-128E-3F1E-A8D5-304DCDABFCC8.dita"><apiname>SetRealtimeState</apiname></xref>. </p> <p>If
a driver uses DFC threads and is subject to performance guarantees, their
realtime state should be set to on (this is the default when data paging is
enabled). Otherwise the state should be set to off: the warning state is used
for debugging. </p> <p><b>Validating
arguments in client context</b> </p> <p>It is often necessary to validate
the arguments of a request function. This should be done in the context of
the client thread as far as possible. </p> <p>When a driver derived from the
class <xref href="GUID-E7550422-5121-3393-A85E-BB797969CD2A.dita"><apiname>DLogicalChannelBase</apiname></xref> makes a request this happens
automatically as a call to the <xref href="GUID-92AA62BB-14F1-325D-9A22-9C87AAE0535C.dita"><apiname>Request()</apiname></xref> function takes
place in the client thread. When the driver is derived from the class <xref href="GUID-A3CC1D95-4681-3349-A67C-F113A614041D.dita"><apiname>DLogicalChannel</apiname></xref> the
request involves a call to the <xref href="GUID-E31B440A-A98E-30DA-B222-C8BA59A81A0E.dita"><apiname>SendMsg()</apiname></xref> function inherited
from the base class and it is necessary to override the base implementation
to force evaluation of the arguments within the client thread. </p> <p><b>Accessing user memory from client context</b> </p> <p>The DFC should access
user memory as little as possible. Whenever there is a need to access user
memory and it can be accessed in the context of the client thread, it should
be. </p> <p>When the driver is derived from the class <xref href="GUID-E7550422-5121-3393-A85E-BB797969CD2A.dita"><apiname>DLogicalChannelBase</apiname></xref>,
read and write operations on user memory can be performed with calls to the <xref href="GUID-92AA62BB-14F1-325D-9A22-9C87AAE0535C.dita"><apiname>Request()</apiname></xref> function
and these take place in the context of the client thread. </p> <p>When the
driver is derived from the class <xref href="GUID-A3CC1D95-4681-3349-A67C-F113A614041D.dita"><apiname>DLogicalChannel</apiname></xref> it is
possible to read from and write to user memory by overriding the <xref href="GUID-E31B440A-A98E-30DA-B222-C8BA59A81A0E.dita"><apiname>SendMsg()</apiname></xref> function
before passing the message on to be processed by the DFC thread if necessary.
If the message is passed on, data must be stored kernel side either on the
client thread's kernel stack or in the channel object. </p> <p>Message data
can only be stored on the client thread's kernel stack if the message is synchronous
and the size of the data is less than 4Kb. Since the stack is local to the
client it can be used by more than one thread. One way of doing this is to
implement <xref href="GUID-E31B440A-A98E-30DA-B222-C8BA59A81A0E.dita"><apiname>SendMsg()</apiname></xref> with a call to <xref href="GUID-4DF8919A-CAA2-36D5-B91B-E26D2A32F5F5.dita"><apiname>SendControl()</apiname></xref> which
is itself implemented to perform the copying in the client thread context
and independently call the <xref href="GUID-E31B440A-A98E-30DA-B222-C8BA59A81A0E.dita"><apiname>SendMsg()</apiname></xref> function of the parent
class. </p> <p>Where the message is asynchronous you can use a similar strategy
for overriding the <xref href="GUID-E31B440A-A98E-30DA-B222-C8BA59A81A0E.dita"><apiname>SendMsg()</apiname></xref> function but this time perform
the copying to a buffer owned by the channel independently of a call to the <xref href="GUID-E31B440A-A98E-30DA-B222-C8BA59A81A0E.dita"><apiname>SendMsg()</apiname></xref> function
of the parent class. In this case the size of the data must be small (in the
region of 4Kb), there must be only one client using the buffer, and data cannot
be written back to the client. </p> <p><b>Using
TClientDataRequest</b> </p> <p>An asynchronous request often needs to copy
a structure of fixed size to its client to complete a request. The <xref href="GUID-918410AB-63D3-3672-82BE-73289F88C03E.dita"><apiname>TClientDataRequest</apiname></xref> object
exists for this purpose: it writes a fixed size structure to user memory and
completes the request in the following steps. </p> <ol id="GUID-100FA302-3292-565D-A0BC-A7314C2E2499-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-26">
<li id="GUID-41BF301F-9FC7-55F8-9346-42262F49B5EE-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-26-1"><p>The driver creates a <xref href="GUID-918410AB-63D3-3672-82BE-73289F88C03E.dita"><apiname>TClientDataRequest</apiname></xref> object
for each asynchronous client which may be outstanding concurrently: either
one per client or one per request as appropriate. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-D4322A3D-C2F7-52D2-B600-35A65EF460CD-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-26-2"><p>When the client makes
a request the <xref href="GUID-918410AB-63D3-3672-82BE-73289F88C03E.dita"><apiname>TClientDataRequest</apiname></xref> object is set to contain
the address of the client's buffer or descriptor and the address of the client's <xref href="GUID-E0B34F3E-D4C4-3232-B8B1-7DB35B454646.dita"><apiname>TRequestStatus</apiname></xref>.
This takes place in the client context. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-6FBED29F-E54D-5C5C-A6E5-8DBA41625338-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-26-3"><p>The data to be written
is copied into the buffer of the <xref href="GUID-918410AB-63D3-3672-82BE-73289F88C03E.dita"><apiname>TClientDataRequest</apiname></xref> object. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3316EB6E-804D-5CBC-8930-68D8E226C955-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-26-4"><p>A call to <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-DE0CF5BD-B166-3C5B-9E27-F95710322F21"><apiname>Kern::QueueRequestComplete()</apiname></xref> passes
the address of the <xref href="GUID-918410AB-63D3-3672-82BE-73289F88C03E.dita"><apiname>TClientDataRequest</apiname></xref> object. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-39DE78F0-D6E0-582B-B3F1-3AEC6D0E12CE-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-26-5"><p>The client is signalled
immediately. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-5FF0CD64-F05D-5DF2-BD96-6B5966119CA8-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-26-6"><p>When the client thread
next runs, the buffer contents and completion value are written to the client. </p> </li>
</ol> <p><b>Using
TClientBufferRequest</b> </p> <p>When it is necessary to access user memory
from a DFC thread context, that memory must be pinned for the duration of
the request and unpinned when the request is completed. The pinning must be
performed in the context of the client thread. The <xref href="GUID-5CD6D111-213B-31A2-AA46-C5598DDB7249.dita"><apiname>TClientBufferRequest</apiname></xref> object
exists for this purpose.It is used in the following way. </p> <ol id="GUID-3FEB8983-0BF6-578D-856A-09433AD7182E-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-29">
<li id="GUID-4C3FB914-624A-50FE-94E0-EFF85D6169F8-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-29-1"><p>The driver creates a <xref href="GUID-5CD6D111-213B-31A2-AA46-C5598DDB7249.dita"><apiname>TClientBufferRequest</apiname></xref> object
for each client request which may be outstanding concurrently: either one
per client or one per request as appropriate. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-CAD03D3A-19E6-5C3D-A203-1726917A50B2-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-29-2"><p>Whe a client makes a
request, the <xref href="GUID-5CD6D111-213B-31A2-AA46-C5598DDB7249.dita"><apiname>TClientBufferRequest</apiname></xref> object is set to contain
the address of any buffers used and the address of the client's <xref href="GUID-E0B34F3E-D4C4-3232-B8B1-7DB35B454646.dita"><apiname>TRequestStatus</apiname></xref>.
Doing so pins the contents of the buffers: they can be specified as descriptors
or by start address and length. This takes place in the client context. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8493130F-9E96-580F-B509-5EB5B69852A0-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-29-3"><p>The driver calls <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-A33C039B-981C-3234-A414-95487D4103A9"><apiname>Kern::ThreadBufRead()</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-0C62AA11-87B4-307A-B63E-08A6842C7283"><apiname>Kern::ThreadBufWrite()</apiname></xref> to access the client's buffers. This takes place in the context of the DFC. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-5C63E867-025B-5F67-90CE-CE960DC254BB-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-29-4"><p>When the request is
complete, the driver calls <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-ECE11E29-0831-3271-AFAA-88DAE4131BE1"><apiname>Kern::QueueBufferRequestComplete()</apiname></xref> passing
the <xref href="GUID-5CD6D111-213B-31A2-AA46-C5598DDB7249.dita"><apiname>TClientBufferRequest</apiname></xref> object. This signals the client
immediately and unpins the buffers. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-474B2BBE-F24E-5DB3-B83F-CDA95DDE0C3E-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-29-5"><p>When the client thread
next runs, the completion value is written back to the client along with the
updated length of any descriptors. </p> </li>
</ol> <p><b>Using
Kern::RequestComplete()</b> </p> <p>The function <xref href="GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D.dita#GUID-C6946ECB-775F-3EC2-A56F-78F25B9FBE3D/GUID-D720BB4C-5E31-3213-BB16-859AA325FE98"><apiname>Kern::RequestComplete()</apiname></xref> exists
in two versions: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-11FEEAC7-3223-5B27-9FA2-0C71F5F55E8C-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-32" xml:space="preserve">static void Kern::RequestComplete(DThread* aThread, TRequestStatus*&amp; aStatus, TInt aReason);</codeblock> <p>which is now deprecated, and its overloaded replacement </p> <codeblock id="GUID-AAAAF661-3C0F-5048-8AD2-16C085A65387-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-34" xml:space="preserve">static void Kern::RequestComplete(TRequestStatus*&amp; aStatus, TInt aReason);</codeblock> <p>The
overloaded version should always be used, as it does not take a thread pointer
argument. </p> <p><b>Using
shared chunks</b> </p> <p>Shared chunks are a mechanism by which kernel side
code shares buffers with user side code. As an alternative to pinning memory
they have the following advantages: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-65C6ECA6-A89B-5303-B674-E90AA805841A-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-38-1"><p>Shared chunks cannot
be paged and therefore paging faults never arise. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-D7B96CD0-725F-5FCB-A30A-6FFF55ADC439-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-5-38-2"><p>Shared chunks transfer
data with a minimum number of copying operations and are useful where high
speeds and large volumes are required. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>Shared chunks present disadvantages when a driver is being migrated
rather than written from scratch, as the client API must be rewritten as well
as the driver code. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-143D7A45-D119-4AEF-8941-116C2567514F-GENID-1-10-1-15-1-1-7-1-1-5-1-8-1-11-1-7-1-5-1-9-1-3-6"><title>See Also</title> <p> <xref href="GUID-85C18DAF-DB76-51C6-B38D-A802E314F4D1.dita">Performance Guarantee Tutorial</xref>  </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>