<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-7AEE6EC4-28FA-5513-8294-FACE6AAA9F8C" xml:lang="en"><title>Multimedia
Framework test suite</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This topic describes the Multimedia Framework test suite. It provides an
overview about the test suite, its coverage, how to set up the test environment
to execute the test suite, and how to find further information about the test
cases offered by this test suite. </p>
<section><title>Test suite overview</title> <p>The Multimedia
Framework test suite consists of several regression test suites that provides
tests for the following classes: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-8B4EEE61-18C7-5C2C-828B-9921ABC751DD"><p> <xref href="GUID-810D29DA-8332-3E63-8A63-5B8A04EC9688.dita"><apiname>CMdaAudioConvertUtility</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DB4A3A2C-BB1B-5750-9C51-E793ED26321B"><p> <xref href="GUID-92BDB3AF-D9DB-35E2-AC6F-6435D3D1A4D8.dita"><apiname>CMdaAudioInputStream</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9801C3F7-9310-5255-934D-5B037D909445"><p> <xref href="GUID-B87C8F92-9737-3636-9800-BA267A1DCA6D.dita"><apiname>CMdaAudioOutputStream</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C0FB1359-F8FB-5C30-B4F4-C900D045FE7C"><p> <xref href="GUID-778D24B5-A68E-3C91-B66A-69007FBA4791.dita"><apiname>CMdaAudioPlayerUtility</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9358D960-C6EF-511C-87E1-23A8D2AF1FC5"><p> <xref href="GUID-29FB1DE6-D00C-3E6B-A8AA-476FAFD7F26C.dita"><apiname>CMdaAudioRecorderUtility</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DC6CC635-F478-555A-97BC-F1A6ABDBC3F8"><p> <xref href="GUID-D728A286-A202-3915-9643-8FD70646F78A.dita"><apiname>CMdaAudioToneUtility</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0929A276-9F12-5A5E-A59E-2E18BB596723"><p> <xref href="GUID-533353BF-BBDC-3841-A46F-12B5FD67E186.dita"><apiname>CMidiClientUtility</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-97BBBAAA-57A4-5781-8F44-451D91E340A4"><p> <xref href="GUID-0F1F8AC6-B99F-3274-A785-9977197AF762.dita"><apiname>CVideoPlayerUtility</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0CFD1F5C-31FA-5ED9-8333-A26A98C40FC2"><p> <xref href="GUID-8A183C79-0EA4-3A4A-B95F-E2F1BF74238D.dita"><apiname>CVideoRecorderUtility</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
</ul> <p>All APIs that Symbian classify as <b>PublishedAll</b> are tested
within this class. </p> <p> <b>Note:</b> Any mention of <codeph>epoc32</codeph> is
offset by <codeph>%EPOCROOT%</codeph> that is, the full path where the epoc
tree is installed. </p> </section>
<section><title> Test approach</title> <p>The test suite ensures that the
APIs work as expected. Negative testing will be performed where applicable
to confirm that errors are returned as documented. The tests are completely
automated. </p> </section>
<section><title>Coverage omissions</title> <p>None. </p> </section>
<section><title>Test suite details</title> <ul>
<li id="GUID-9A22A5FA-03A4-5DE0-9DC7-A99ECCF7042D"><p> <b>Test Script Source
Tree location:</b>  </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-936414A7-86E4-5BDB-90A9-2136AE248B7D"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_MdaAudioConvertUtility\scripts\MM-MMF-ACLNT-CNVRT-PublicAPI.script</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7E6DEEF2-8505-5258-A6AD-6898FA2E8BC6"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_MdaAudioInputStream\scripts\MM-MMF-ACLNT-INPT-PublicAPI.script</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2592EB83-9AFF-5A70-B83E-F0D672195838"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_MdaAudioOutputStream\scripts\MM-MMF-ACLNT-OUTPT-PublicAPI.script</filepath>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2EF8B59B-1A72-5E97-B5E6-23BFF7DB4DDC"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_MdaAudioPlayerUtility\scripts\MM-MMF-ACLNT-PLYR-PublicAPI.script</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F7354DDB-7EFE-5338-B3C2-E0E2665272CA"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_MdaAudioRecorderUtility\scripts\MM-MMF-ACLNT-RCRDR-PublicAPI.script</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-23BB39EF-CB05-5521-B602-D39E2A2F8DD0"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_MdaAudioToneUtility\scripts\MM-MMF-ACLNT-TONE-PublicAPI.script</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0EDCAC77-2F23-520C-A99F-4BD543C0FE62"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_MidiClientUtility\scripts\MM-MMF-MIDI-PublicAPI.script</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-33078293-6889-5AA9-97BD-1667CD04B859"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_VideoPlayerUtility\scripts\MM-MMF-VCLNT-PLYR-PublicAPI.script</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-920A8A07-53B5-5A6A-85A8-5EEEC06D35FC"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_VideoRecorderUtilityscripts\MM-MMF-VCLNT-RCRDR-PublicAPI.script</filepath> </p> </li>
</ul> </li>
<li id="GUID-7C6BAA71-D38F-5833-889F-EC735B9FF3DF"><p> <b>Test Script EPOC
tree location on Emulator:</b> When the tests are built, the scripts are first
exported to the following location in the <codeph>epoc</codeph> tree: </p> <p> <filepath>%EPOCROOT%\epoc32\data\Z\multimedia\</filepath>  </p> <p> <b>Test Script Build Location</b>: When the tests are built, the scripts
are built in the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>%EPOCROOT%\epoc32\release\&lt;winscw|armv5&gt;\&lt;udeb|urel&gt;\Z\multimedia
                </filepath>  </p> <p> <b>Note:</b> When the tests are built
to be run on hardware, the files are built in the <codeph>z </codeph> drive
of the ROM. </p> </li>
</ul> <p><b>Test
data source tree location</b> </p> <p>The test data files can be found in
the following location: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-209783C5-460B-53DF-A264-EF2AF99BDBAD"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_MdaAudioConvertUtility\testdata\MM-MMF-ACLNT-CNVRT-PublicAPI.ini
                  </filepath>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C464D84A-8185-57C7-BFE0-4D1206146750"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_MdaAudioInputStream\testdata\MM-MMF-ACLNT-INPT-PublicAPI.ini</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-EBE17082-C9E0-5027-B2DA-86AEA98C3ED5"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_MdaAudioOutputStream\testdata\MM-MMF-ACLNT-OUTPT-PublicAPI.ini</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0670F99F-D696-54E5-95C0-9DF6095F3435"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_MdaAudioPlayerUtility\testdata\MM-MMF-ACLNT-PLYR-PublicAPI.ini</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-35C54019-EE9B-5AA7-8E09-0841C9590C3E"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_MdaAudioRecorderUtility\testdata\MM-MMF-ACLNT-RCRDR-PublicAPI.ini</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-1F6A1C61-5D0A-59DD-A90B-4AD2DEE23A43"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_MdaAudioToneUtility\testdata\MM-MMF-ACLNT-TONE-PublicAPI.ini</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3A003E93-8EFE-5F34-9D31-3FC78F00AC33"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_MidiClientUtility\testdata\MM-MMF-MIDI-PublicAPI.ini</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-12A848A4-5840-59F9-8E56-D8B9E6BAB1D2"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_VideoPlayerUtility\testdata\MM-MMF-VCLNT-PLYR-PublicAPI.ini</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3A1DD2B7-053F-5158-AABC-E204CCD9CB56"><p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\mmf\T_VideoRecorderUtility\testdata\MM-MMF-VCLNT-RCRDR-PublicAPI.ini</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-1DC4E3CA-5F02-518E-8BEC-60BDEA566A19"><p> <filepath>…\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\testdata\t_multimedia.ini</filepath>  </p> </li>
</ul> <p><b>Test
data on EPOC tree location</b> </p> <p>When the tests are built, the test
data files are first exported to the following location in the <codeph>epoc</codeph> tree: </p> <p> <filepath>%EPOCROOT%\epoc32\data\Z\multimedia\ </filepath>  </p> <p><b>Test
data build location</b> </p> <p>When the tests are built, the test data files
are built in the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>%EPOCROOT%\epoc32\release\&lt;winscw|armv5&gt;\&lt;udeb|urel&gt;\Z\multimedia
                </filepath>  </p> <p> <b>Note: </b> When the tests are built
to be executed on hardware the files are built in the <codeph>z </codeph> drive
of the ROM. </p> <p><b>TestDriver file</b> </p> <p>The multimedia <filepath>.driver</filepath> file
can be found in the following path: </p> <p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\testsuites\multimedia</filepath>  </p> <p>It
is used by TestDriver to construct the test suite tree structure and export
all the appropriate files to the correct location in the <codeph>epoc32</codeph> tree
and on the device. </p> <p>When the tests are built, the <filepath>.driver</filepath> file
can be found in the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>%EPOCROOT%\epoc32\testdriver\testproduct</filepath>  </p> <p id="GUID-0F87A5FB-9ABA-50D9-B05F-C604E2625124"><b>TCS file source location</b> </p> <p>The <filepath>.tcs</filepath> file
can be found at the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\config\t_multimedia.tcs</filepath>  </p> <p><b> TCS file build location</b> </p> <p>When the tests are built, the <filepath>.tcs</filepath> file
is generated into the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>%EPOCROOT%\epoc32\release\&lt;winscw|armv5&gt;\&lt;udeb|urel&gt;\Z\multimedia</filepath> </p> <p> <b>Note:</b> When the tests are built to be executed on the hardware,
the files are built into the z: drive of the ROM. </p> <p id="GUID-9DE76C58-1710-5CDE-9258-67CF4A19AEB7"><b>Test global environment
file</b> </p> <p>The <filepath>t_multimedia.ini</filepath> file is the test
suite global environment file, which contains the following device specific
configurable parameters under the <codeph>[default_camera]</codeph> and <codeph>[default_mmf]</codeph> section: </p> <p> <codeph>[default_camera]</codeph>: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-3F7CB293-1D41-563D-8A8E-2AFE1A01FD95"><p>Defines the number of
cameras available on the device. </p> <p> <codeph>count = 1</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9D0B31BC-603E-597A-A45C-D01A757F0DC6"><p>Set to the 0 offset
index of the camera used for still photography tests. </p> <p> <codeph>validstill
= 0</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2E7E80AD-C0D1-5645-A7AD-800C1E94249A"><p>Set to an invalid camera
index for negative still photography tests. </p> <p> <codeph>invalidstill
= 100</codeph>  </p> </li>
</ul> <p> <codeph>[default_mmf]</codeph>: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-23B7797D-F5FB-590C-9CA7-9AC8AAE0B34A"><p>The full path and filename
of the file to which converted audio data is appended. </p> <p> <codeph>secondarylocation
= os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\testdata\mmf\T_MdaAudioConvertUtility\note2.wav</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-11934659-7C77-5BAC-8592-29F0A57E4904"><p>Defines the full path
and filename of a file containing audio sample data to be converted. </p> <p> <codeph>primaryfile
= os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\testdata\mmf\T_MdaAudioConvertUtility\note.wav</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DA515A81-705A-5695-92C6-9AABD0669AE0"><p>Defines the of the audio
controller on the device. </p> <p> <codeph>controlleruid = 101F5022</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C99E1F48-6D55-5847-B781-829BD383D147"><p>Defines the default
bitrate of the converted audio file. </p> <p> <codeph>convert_bitrate = 128000</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-6438CDE1-86EE-5E3F-B6FC-599823F05732"><p>Defines the codec to
be used for the converted audio object. </p> <p> <codeph>secondarycodec =
PcmWavCodec</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-FAE4CCAC-29D6-5039-8240-11458A75A4FC"><p>Defines the codec to
be used for the source (unconverted) audio object. </p> <p> <codeph>primarycodec
= PcmWavCodec</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-540D4512-08D8-5534-A5DE-F10C537F1784"><p>Defines the TFourcc
code of the converted audio format. </p> <p> <codeph>fourcc_codecformat =
KMMFFourCCCodePCM16</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C6319193-C7DB-53EF-8F64-21AA2A0911B9"><p>Defines the default
bitrate the audio stream player may be set to. </p> <p> <codeph>Input_bitrate
= 10000</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-CE7245AD-FD54-5810-B3CC-6D83C5784A01"><p>Defines the format the
input audio stream may be set to. </p> <p> <codeph>fourcc_inputdatatype =
KMMFFourCCCodePCM16</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-65643146-B34B-5497-88E1-4F6ABE169A0E"><p>Defines the format the
output audio stream may be set to. </p> <p> <codeph>fourcc_outputdatatype
= KMMFFourCCCodePCM16</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8AA7D134-F8A3-51E9-8082-C03043B22100"><p>The playback file of
the audio player. </p> <p> <codeph>playbackfile =                   os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\testdata\mmf\T_MdaAudioPlayerUtility\test.wav</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2A0858D7-E96D-599A-A8D9-6E291BE5DAE1"><p>Defines the format in
which the audio data will be recorded. </p> <p> <codeph>fourcc_rcrdrdatatype
= KMMFFourCCCodePCM16</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-182E7524-F70E-5577-BBF0-92AA2164761D"><p>The audio tone sequence
files or descriptors to be played back by the audio tone player. </p> <p> <codeph>sequence
= os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\testdata\mmf\T_MdaAudioToneUtility\sequence1.sqn</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C46F4EB2-416D-5D98-BBB9-56465499CF07"><p>This is the alternate
playback sequence. </p> <p> <codeph>alternate_sequence = os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\testdata\mmf\T_MdaAudioToneUtility\sequence2.sqn</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A6EDEC92-AB23-50EF-8212-CC0ACACA8891"><p>Badsequence is a corrupt
sequence used in negative tests. </p> <p> <codeph>bad_sequence = os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\testdata\mmf\T_MdaAudioToneUtility\badsequence.sqn</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7095FB8F-4503-5A0F-ABBB-1B3AA2823CBF"><p>The corrupt file and
path used for negative testing of the audio tone player. </p> <p> <codeph>wrong_filename
= \wrongplace\wrongfile.file</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B32CCE11-40F4-50F8-9600-CB9A52A290B5"><p>Defines the default
priority (A priority between EMdaPriorityMin and EMdaPriorityMax) of the tone
to be played back. </p> <p> <codeph>tone_priority = 50</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A2030D87-B1CF-5D15-A3C6-302A19543679"><p>Defines the default
prioritypreference value, which define the behaviour to be adopted by an audio
client if a higher priority client takes over the device. </p> <p> <codeph>tone_prioritypreference
= TimeAndQuality</codeph>  </p> </li>
</ul> <p>The file containing Musical Instrument Digital Interface (MIDI) data
to be used by the MIDI client. </p> <p> <codeph>midifilename = os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\testdata\mmf\T_MidiClientUtility\midi.mid</codeph>  </p> <p>This
enables you to modify these parameter values so that the tests may be executed
with different test data. For example, if the bitrate of the audio stream
player on the device under test is 2000, set <codeph>input_bitrate</codeph> to<codeph>2000</codeph>. </p> </section>
<section><title>Test Environment and Execution</title> <p><b>Device
Setup</b> </p> <p>The following test suites requires additional plug-ins to
be built before they can be run. </p> <p><b> T_MidiClientUtility</b> </p> <p>The <codeph>T_MidiClientUtility</codeph> test suite requires that the device under test
has the MIDI client plug-in with the MIDI controller in place. The Symbian
platform does not provide an implementation of the MIDI controller assuming
that device creators are likely to have their own implementation. </p> <p>In
the absence of a production quality MIDI controller, the test suite can be
run using the test MIDI controller which can be found in the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>…\mw\mmmw\mmfwtest\mmfunittest\MidiClnt\MidiTestCntrl</filepath> </p> <p>The following commands for building these are in the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\group\mmsetup.pl</filepath> </p> <p>This can be run by running <filepath>mmsetup.bat</filepath>. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-877E8370-A4AD-5342-B7CF-A9C1CF13BD40" xml:space="preserve">system("bldmake bldfiles");
system("abld build $platform $build miditstcntrl");
</codeblock> <p><b>T_VideoPlayerUtility
and T_VideoRecorderUtility</b> </p> <p>The <codeph>T_VideoPlayerUtility</codeph> and <codeph>T_VideoRecorderUtility</codeph> suites
needs the device under test to have the camera hardware, complete video controller,
video player and recorder application. The Symbian platform does not implement
a complete video controller, <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita"><apiname>CCamera</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-0F1F8AC6-B99F-3274-A785-9977197AF762.dita"><apiname>CVideoPlayerUtility</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-8A183C79-0EA4-3A4A-B95F-E2F1BF74238D.dita"><apiname>CVideoRecorderUtility</apiname></xref> classes
assuming that device creators will have their own specific implementation
depending on the hardware. In such cases, the device specific camera, codec
and other input file related details can be modified in <filepath>t_multimedia.ini </filepath> (see <xref href="GUID-7AEE6EC4-28FA-5513-8294-FACE6AAA9F8C.dita#GUID-7AEE6EC4-28FA-5513-8294-FACE6AAA9F8C/GUID-9DE76C58-1710-5CDE-9258-67CF4A19AEB7">Test
global environment file</xref> section). </p> <p>In the absence of a production
quality camera application the test suite can be executed using the test camera
application. The test camera application can be found in the following location
(relative to the location of the source code): </p> <p> <filepath>…\os\mm\imagingandcamerafws\camerafw</filepath> </p> <p>The
following components are to be built for the test video controller for Symbian
platform versions 9.1-9.3: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-07D414DE-D70A-5493-BE0B-A655BBB4818F"><p> <codeph>TestFrameworkServer</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-CE315457-C36A-5E58-87E4-6D820FA2DB91"><p> <codeph>TestFrameworkClient</codeph>  </p> </li>
</ul> <p>These components can be found in the following location: </p> <p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmtestenv</filepath> </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-9E375F2A-5704-5125-84F5-908B1724A944"><p> <codeph>TS_CMMFVideoTestCustomCommands</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3B4E4253-FE01-53D8-8B51-8444ABF36116"><p> <codeph>TS_CMMFVideoTestController</codeph>  </p> </li>
</ul> <p> <filepath>…\mw\mmmw\mmfwtest\mmfunittest</filepath> </p> <p>The
following commands for building these are in the following path: </p> <p> <filepath>…\os\mm\mmapitest\mmsvs\suite\group\mmsetup.pl</filepath> </p> <p>This can be executed by running <filepath>mmsetup.bat</filepath>. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-4FF7FC3E-722B-5795-B624-20ED005FFEDE" xml:space="preserve">system("bldmake bldfiles");
system("abld test build $platform $build testcamera");
system("bldmake bldfiles");
system("abld build $platform $build TestFrameworkServer");
system("abld build $platform $build TestFrameworkClient");
system("bldmake bldfiles");
system("abld build $platform $build TS_CMMFVideoTestCustomCommands");
system("abld build $platform $build TS_CMMFVideoTestController");
</codeblock> <p>From version 9.4 onwards, Avi Video Controller has been added
to Symbian platform. In order for this controller to work, a xvid codec is
required. The code for this codec can be downloaded from <xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/File:Xvid.zip" scope="external">http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/File:Xvid.zip</xref>.</p> <p>Follow
the instructions in the <filepath>readme.txt</filepath> file contained in
the zip file to build it. Please refer to <xref href="GUID-05570195-D64A-5F65-AB7C-2C6BF8D332B3.dita">Multimedia
test technology</xref> for further information regarding test environment
and build and execution procedure. </p> <p><b>Support</b> </p> <p>For support issues related to this test suite, its
description, and issues related to running the tests, test pass rates, and
potential defects, contact Symbian or your SDK provider. In most instances,
this will be either through the Symbian technical consulting teams, the SDK
provider forums, or the developer area of the <xref href="http:\\www.Symbian.org" scope="external">Symbian</xref> Web site. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>