<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-05DE2202-C0A4-4612-8EA0-7DA8B3DEA331" xml:lang="en"><title>Copyright
Acknowledgments for Standard C++ (STLport v4) and Boost Libraries</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-E1BF4AD0-E0BE-465B-8C6E-B0ECF7949D8A"><title>Standard
C++ (STLport v4)</title><p>---------------------------------------------------------------------</p><p> STLport
License</p><p> ---------------------------------------------------------------------</p><p>Boris
Fomitchev grants Licensee a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free</p><p>license
to use STLport and its documentation without fee.</p><p>By downloading, using,
or copying STLport or any portion thereof, Licensee agrees</p><p>to abide
by the intellectual property laws and all other applicable laws of the</p><p>United
States of America, and to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.</p><p/><p>Licensee
shall maintain the following copyright and permission notices on STLport 
sources and its documentation unchanged:</p><p/><p>Copyright 1999, 2000
Boris Fomitchev</p><p/><p>This material is provided "as is", with absolutely
no warranty expressed or implied.</p><p>Any use is at your own risk. Permission
to use or copy this software for any purpose</p><p>is hereby granted without
fee, provided the above notices are retained on all copies.</p><p>Permission
to modify the code and to distribute modified code is granted, provided the </p><p>above
notices are retained, and a notice that the code was modified is included
with</p><p>the above copyright notice.</p><p/><p>The Licensee may distribute
binaries compiled with STLport (whether original or modified)</p><p>without
any royalties or restrictions.</p><p/><p>The Licensee may distribute original
or modified STLport sources, provided that:</p><p>The conditions indicated
in the above permission notice are met;</p><p>The following copyright notices
are retained when present, and conditions provided</p><p>in accompanying permission
notices are met:</p><p/><p>Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company</p><p>Copyright
1996,97 Silicon Graphics Computer Systems, Inc.</p><p>Copyright 1997 Moscow
Center for SPARC Technology.</p><p>Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute
and sell this software and its</p><p>documentation for any purpose is hereby
granted without fee, provided that</p><p>the above copyright notice appear
in all copies and that both that copyright</p><p>notice and this permission
notice appear in supporting documentation. Hewlett-Packard</p><p>Company makes
no representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose.</p><p>It
is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.</p><p>Permission
to use, copy, modify, distribute and sell this software and its documentation</p><p>for
any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright
notice</p><p>appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and
this permission notice appear</p><p>in supporting documentation. Silicon Graphics
makes no representations about the suitability</p><p>of this software for
any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.</p><p>Permission
to use, copy, modify, distribute and sell this software and its documentation
for</p><p>any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear</p><p>in all copies and that both that copyright notice
and this permission notice appear in</p><p>supporting documentation. Moscow
Center for SPARC Technology makes no representations</p><p>about the suitability
of this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without</p><p>express
or implied warranty. </p></section>
<section id="GUID-45863E44-7810-4639-B53A-8C5E93A6A412"><title>Boost Libraries</title><p/><p>/*------------------------------------------------------------------</p><p/><p>Boost
Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003</p><p/><p>--------------------------------------------------------------------*/</p><p/><p>Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization</p><p>obtaining
a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by</p><p>this
license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,</p><p>execute,
and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the</p><p>Software,
and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to</p><p>do
so, all subject to the following:</p><p/><p>The copyright notices in the
Software and this entire statement, including</p><p>the above license grant,
this restriction and the following disclaimer,</p><p>must be included in all
copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and</p><p>all derivative works
of the Software, unless such copies or derivative</p><p> works are solely
in the form of machine-executable object code generated by</p><p>a source
language processor.</p><p/><p>THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR</p><p>IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,</p><p>FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE,
TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT</p><p>SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS
OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE</p><p>FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,</p><p>ARISING FROM, OUT
OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER</p><p>DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>