<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-F5371A59-A637-4623-A2C0-9A8B8E5F3CFB" xml:lang="en"><title>Interaction
with other hardware components</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>In addition to traditional keys, interaction devices of other types may
be built in the devices. In most scenarios, they produce input events similar
to keys, so that the software need not be changed. The hardware commands do
not have any effect on the application.</p>
<p>Examples of specific interaction devices are:<ul>
<li><p>Optical joysticks</p></li>
<li><p>Optical 9-way finger navigation</p></li>
<li><p>Acceleration sensors</p></li>
</ul></p>
<section id="GUID-C70CF894-EACC-470A-98C7-846B7FBC4F04"><title>Optical joystick</title><p>An optical joystick can be used
instead of (or in addition to) the traditional navigation keys. </p><p>When
used in combination with traditional scroll keys, optical joystick performs
same functions as that of mechanical scroll keys. However, the speed of the
movement can differ. </p><p>When used individually as the only scrolling device,
optical joystick emulates the functions of mechanical scroll keys. Sliding
a finger down over the joystick provides the same function as that of pressing
the down key. Repeat functionality can be produced with longer strokes. </p></section>
<section id="GUID-DF3C81F4-2FAD-4373-8568-0CFC6C7F9618">       <title>Optical
9-way navigation</title><p>The Symbian platform supports additional optical
navigation that is integrated to centre Select key. The supported directions
in 9-way rocker key are domed main directions and diagonals by combining the
main directions. Optical navigation allows continues moment of the finger
as observed in touch pad. It is suitable for pointer moving in browser and
content panning, for example, in photos, browser, and maps.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-10494E4E-B037-4874-BEFB-20AB95B61CBA"><title>Acceleration
sensor</title><p>There are three types of interaction events that can be recognized
with acceleration sensors:<ol>
<li id="GUID-704B967F-7E70-4446-B443-DDCA665D80BE"><p>Tapping the device by
hand (double tap) to perform a given function in set events. Tapping interaction
is not recommended for touch devices to prevent the unintentional touch actions.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-43884A1A-DE03-4074-8D35-4C5254159F14"><p>Changing the device’s
orientation from portrait to landscape and back to perform screen re-orientation.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-C07401D7-3AD2-4D74-B61D-E08A95F4E504"><p>Changing the device
orientation from screen up (for example on a table) to screen down and back
to silence an alert tone (for example, silencing an incoming call).</p></li>
</ol></p>The system is capable of sensing any of listed events. The supported
sensor interactions are configurable per device, but must be consistent in
not assigning different functions to these standard events. Also, the user
can be provided with the option to set the desired interactions. For example,
it is possible to set methods 1 and 3 (double tap by hand and turning the
screen downwards) for the 'silence incoming call' event. The settings are
available in <b>General Settings</b>. A double tap on the device produces
tactile (vibrating) feedback to reinforce and acknowledge that the interaction
is successful. See <xref href="GUID-581A8E4B-12BE-41C0-A20E-3087A80FEECF.dita">Tactile
feedback</xref> for more details.</section>
</conbody></concept>