<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-308A3F78-3DD6-443A-B021-B8E2C2DFEE4D" xml:lang="en"><title>Dimming</title><abstract><p>Dimming is a visual indication that some command or activity
is not possible at that moment.</p><p>Dimming is an important feature especially
in touch usage and notably supports user action with touch UI. Tactile feedback
is not given when user touches a dimmed area except if pop-up without softkeys
is closed.</p></abstract><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-C08BA85D-CB47-428E-869B-370077800D21"><title>Dimming the
screen</title><p>The entire screen is dimmed in the background when the <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol> and
power menu, floating toolbars, notes, soft notifications, settings editors
or queries are displayed.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-ED73DBC0-8230-49FB-B1C3-EE53FE4C34C6"><title>Dimming controls</title><p>In
some situations, it may be necessary to dim unavailable controls. This is
done on the component level so that a control has a normal and a dimmed state,
for example, toolbar button.</p><p>Dimming indicates that the
control is temporarily not available. For example, function is not possible
for the focused item, but for the other items in the view. Dimming should
not be used if the user never sees the control in active state within that
view. In this case unavailable control is to be hidden.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-B9A2C268-0BE5-4375-AC4E-63DD6EAAC5E2"><title>Dimming the
Options menu items</title><p>The <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol> menu items
are never dimmed. Instead, unavailable commands are either simply not shown
or an Information note is given explaining why that item cannot be used at
the moment.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>