<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task xml:lang="en" id="GUID-E3981A14-DD2C-5582-A250-C2AD358729FD"><title>Retrieving Skipped Alarmed Calendar Instances</title><shortdesc>This topic describes how a client can get a list of Calendar instances that correspond to skipped Calendar alarms. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody> <context><p>The client uses the <xref href="GUID-7D000F68-4D43-38EB-9ACB-4F991439BAE7.dita"><apiname>FindAlarmedInstanceL()</apiname></xref> function to retrieve a list of alarmed Calendar instances. The function takes an <codeph>aInstanceParams</codeph> argument. The value of <codeph>aInstanceParams</codeph> is obtained by querying the current value of the <xref href="GUID-7D000F68-4D43-38EB-9ACB-4F991439BAE7.dita"><apiname>KSkippedAlarmInstancesPubSubKey</apiname></xref> property. </p> <p>The procedure that follows shows how an application retrieves an alarmed Calendar instance. </p> </context> <steps-unordered><step id="GUID-6E6913B0-C4DE-54DC-B3A6-5140CDFFBC6A"><cmd/><info> <xref href="GUID-7D000F68-4D43-38EB-9ACB-4F991439BAE7.dita"><apiname>RetrieveListOfInstancesL()</apiname></xref> gets the list of instances of skipped alarms. </info> <stepxmp><codeblock id="GUID-F4F2477B-0F72-5B16-8D74-55279003883F" xml:space="preserve">#include &lt;calinstanceview.h&gt; // For CCalInstanceView etc.
#include &lt;ASShdAlarm.h&gt;      // For TASShdAlarmedInstanceParams etc.
#include &lt;…&gt;
…
void CSkippedAlarmsObserver::RetrieveListOfInstancesL(
    RPointerArray&lt;CCalInstance&gt;&amp; aInstanceList,     
    TASShdAlarmedInstanceParams&amp; aInstanceParams)
    {
    iCalInstanceView-&gt;FindAlarmedInstanceL(aInstanceList, aInstanceParams);
    }
</codeblock> </stepxmp> <info>The <codeph>aInstanceList</codeph> value can then be used by a client to display information about the alarmed Calendar instances that were skipped. An example of this is a summary field from the associated Calendar entry. </info> </step> </steps-unordered> </taskbody><related-links><link href="GUID-B144DB6C-EEE2-5610-8C22-4A30F5423AB9.dita"><linktext>Working with Skipped
                Calendar Alarms</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-CA933F35-7508-5C98-9DB6-2492803A2183.dita"><linktext>Reading a Skipped Alarm
                Property</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-BF8C56B7-1F39-502F-B9CA-81E9272CC945.dita"><linktext>Reading a Skipped Alarm Instances
                Property</linktext> </link> </related-links></task>