<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task xml:lang="en" id="GUID-BF93087C-A674-5CD0-9B5A-8F23F9734530"><title>Mobile Call Parameters Tutorial</title><shortdesc>This tutorial describes how to set the mobile call parameters in the Multimode telephony API. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody> <context><p>The call parameters are stored in a <xref href="GUID-370708D3-7A34-3F78-BC6F-9243B50ECF09.dita"><apiname>RMobileCall::TMobileCallParamsV1</apiname></xref> class. This inherits from <xref href="GUID-370708D3-7A34-3F78-BC6F-9243B50ECF09.dita"><apiname>RCall::TCallParams</apiname></xref>, and adds these parameters: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-05F31799-512D-53F5-B638-4B19CAB56E50"><p>a setting to restrict the display of call ID </p> </li> <li id="GUID-BCEDD39A-5206-5A5A-B098-19ADAA967235"><p>the Closed User Group (CUG) setting to be used in the GSM and WCDMA modes. </p> <p>CUG is a supplementary service that allows a user to dial a defined closed group of users. The CUG is used to save the cost of the call. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-9497EED3-7C15-5D0D-AF17-84A66EABA3E0"><p>a flag to specifiy if the call attempt is initiatied by the user or an automatic redial </p> </li> </ul> </context> <steps id="GUID-9E3B00F2-794D-51FF-B42C-9818DF057F03"> <step id="GUID-26D93BFE-D591-5DE4-A337-23015401A726"><cmd/><info>Set the call parameters of a call in a packaged object. </info> </step> <step id="GUID-78E52AD9-C794-5CFC-A47C-662032134E0D"><cmd/><info>Pass the parameters to <xref href="GUID-370708D3-7A34-3F78-BC6F-9243B50ECF09.dita"><apiname>RCall::Dial()</apiname></xref> to set the call parameters to establish a call. </info> </step> <step id="GUID-645FD20D-6517-5AB2-9E1C-6A5106BAEC96"><cmd/><info>Pass the call parameters to <xref href="GUID-370708D3-7A34-3F78-BC6F-9243B50ECF09.dita"><apiname>RCall::AnswerIncomingCall()</apiname></xref> to set the call parameter for an incoming call. </info> </step> <step id="GUID-ED711E5D-9AAA-5975-8D6C-C459DFF878E5"><cmd/><substeps id="GUID-3AC51DD2-D6B7-5158-9B8B-9CAC00659A84"><substep id="GUID-C6475D2B-703D-592F-93A3-1D179257EAB8"><cmd/><info>for data calls use the additional parameters provided by the derived class <xref href="GUID-370708D3-7A34-3F78-BC6F-9243B50ECF09.dita"><apiname>RMobileCall::TMobileDataCallParamsV1</apiname></xref>  </info> </substep> <substep id="GUID-82CC24F6-5CB6-5316-B1A8-B5C23DA5B82A"><cmd/><info>for HSCSD calls use the additional parameters provided by the derived class <xref href="GUID-370708D3-7A34-3F78-BC6F-9243B50ECF09.dita"><apiname>RMobileCall::TMobileHscsdCallParamsV1</apiname></xref>  </info> </substep> </substeps> </step> </steps> <example><title>Call parameters example</title> <p>The following code sets the call parameter to restrict the display of the caller's ID, and dials the specified number. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-A816EA03-AB7F-5B86-9711-4C1B83736D2F" xml:space="preserve">void CClientApp::DialRestrictID(RMobileCall&amp; aCall, const RCall::TTelNumberC&amp; aTelNumber, TRequestStatus&amp; aStatus)
{
     RMobileCall::TMobileCallParamsV1 callParams;
     RMobileCall::TMobileCallParamsV1Pckg callParamsPckg(callParams);
     callParams.iIdRestrict = RMobileCall::EDontSendMyId;
     aCall.Dial(aStatus, callParamsPckg, aTelNumber);
}
</codeblock> </example> </taskbody><related-links><link href="GUID-95CA8E55-AC98-5B6C-889A-AF0DF17A3D57.dita"><linktext>How to use data call
                parameters</linktext> </link> </related-links></task>