<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-26621CA5-B686-53FB-AF3E-96CDD38C8520" xml:lang="en"><title> Physical
RAM Defragmentation</title><shortdesc>Describes Symbian platform RAM defragmentation.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Symbian platform physical RAM defragmentation is the process of moving
physical pages, used to back virtual allocations, in order to create empty
physical ranges. This enables the powering off of individual RAM banks or,
if required, the allocation of a large contiguous buffer, for example, for
a CCD image. This functionality allows a more efficient use of RAM in terms
of both memory and power consumption. </p>
<p> <note> Symbian platform RAM defragmentation is used to create large areas
of contiguous RAM and/or allow the powering down of surplus RAM ICs: it does
not locate and consolidate fragmented files and folders. This functionality
enables more efficient use of physical RAM and may enable a lower Bill Of
Materials (BOM), or increase battery life.</note> </p>
<p>There are two interrelated use cases for defragmenting physical RAM: </p>
<ul>
<li id="GUID-51F2B5D3-78B2-5EA3-BEBD-6AB9F21D40BD"><p>many device drivers
require physical RAM for use for buffers. For example, a camera driver may
require a physically contiguous buffer for holding the output of the CCD.
In releases 9.3 and before such memory was typically allocated at boot time.
This practice increases initial RAM consumption after boot. Total RAM consumption
can be reduced if memory for such buffers is only allocated as required, rather
than at boot time. It is not possible to provide an absolute guarantee that
the RAM will be available when needed, but it should succeed in all but exceptional
cases. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7865AD99-69C9-511D-9591-1F10A6A62827"><p>typically, memory consumption
of a phone while idle is less than the total memory available. Idle and active
power consumption can be decreased by powering down unused RAM chips or unused
RAM banks within a RAM chip. This may also involve cooperation with a higher
level component in the UI which can shut down unused applications to reclaim
more memory. </p> </li>
</ul>
<section id="GUID-DD63E767-B31C-5311-A4A3-AA6A09B55622"><title>Defragmention
of RAM</title> <p> <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest</apiname></xref> is the class used
by device drivers to perform all defragmentation operations. The three defragmentation
operations provided are: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-B8D5E8DA-2E7F-5F08-A86C-FEBB6EAA6011"><p> <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita#GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262/GUID-B4825007-E3DB-3559-9D58-637150EF3DB9"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest::DefragRam()</apiname></xref> –
Performs a general defragmentation. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0F001B46-EDB2-551C-8D3D-A1FD51D782FF"><p> <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita#GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262/GUID-8C2CB0BA-6596-3639-90F7-CFEF2D839DB1"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest::ClaimRamZone()</apiname></xref> –
Attempts to claim a whole RAM zone. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7E7E62DF-C7F4-5849-A88B-95D7F94F9C75"><p> <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita#GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262/GUID-866259FA-F7D0-360B-AB5D-A1C170383713"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest::EmptyRamZone()</apiname></xref> –
Removes allocated pages from a RAM zone. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>There are three overloads for each of these <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest</apiname></xref> defragmentation
methods which behave differently: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-88C45975-36FC-580F-883F-4429FCE0FFC8"><p>The first overload is
synchronous and blocks the calling thread until the defragmentation is complete
(or is cancelled using <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita#GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262/GUID-2903D832-559C-3FE9-9F9F-317DBD28A7E7"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest::Cancel</apiname></xref>). In this
case, the return value is the result of the defragmentation – an appropriate
system-wide error code. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-5DEFF839-0303-5494-BBCC-04DA3EE8B517"><p>The second overload
is asynchronous and takes a pointer to an <xref href="GUID-22982E51-E746-37CB-9672-97B58C2672BF.dita"><apiname>NFastSemaphore</apiname></xref>.
The semaphore is signalled when the defragmentation is complete. The return
value is <xref href="GUID-6CA4F1ED-7947-3087-B618-D35858FAA3BC.dita"><apiname>KErrNone</apiname></xref> unless there was a problem initializing
the request, in which case an appropriate system-wide error code is returned.
The result of the defragmentation can be obtained by calling <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita#GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262/GUID-F3B3F56D-E4D4-3CF5-AE6A-F2607BB4022B"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest::Result()</apiname></xref> after
the semaphore has been signalled. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-AF7C4053-9317-5B25-B8D9-4B97134969D2"><p>The third overload is
asynchronous and takes a DFC. The DFC is queued when the defragmentation is
complete. The return value is <xref href="GUID-6CA4F1ED-7947-3087-B618-D35858FAA3BC.dita"><apiname>KErrNone</apiname></xref> unless there was
a problem initializing the request, in which case an appropriate system-wide
error code is returned. The result of the defragmentation can be obtained
by calling <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita#GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262/GUID-F3B3F56D-E4D4-3CF5-AE6A-F2607BB4022B"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest::Result()</apiname></xref>. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>All <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest</apiname></xref> defragmentation operations
are placed onto a FIFO queue. Any currently running defragmentation operation
must complete or be cancelled before a new defragmentation operation can begin. </p> <p>All
the <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest</apiname></xref> defragmentation methods have the
following parameter in common: </p> <p><b>aPriority </b> </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-80B69100-6D39-3987-B585-522576AA295B.dita"><apiname>aPriority</apiname></xref> specifies the priority
of the thread that performs the defragmentation. If <codeph>aPriority</codeph> = <xref href="GUID-6A6931F2-FC2D-3F8C-8B30-0F17CDBBD2C5.dita"><apiname>KInheritPriority</apiname></xref>,
the default, then the defragmentation thread will execute with the same priority
as thread that invokes the defragmentation operation. </p> <p id="GUID-E514CE19-D643-5447-A3C1-84EDCF84B9C7"><b>Determining the result of
a defragmentation operation</b> </p> <p>For synchronous overloads of the defragmentation
methods the error code returned by the defragmentation method can be used
to determine the result of the defragmentation operation. <xref href="GUID-6CA4F1ED-7947-3087-B618-D35858FAA3BC.dita"><apiname>KErrNone</apiname></xref> signifies
that the defragmentation operation was successful. </p> <p>For asynchronous
overloads of the defragmentation methods the result of the defragmentation
operation is determined by invoking <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita#GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262/GUID-F3B3F56D-E4D4-3CF5-AE6A-F2607BB4022B"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest::Result()</apiname></xref> after
it has signalled that it has completed. Again, <xref href="GUID-6CA4F1ED-7947-3087-B618-D35858FAA3BC.dita"><apiname>KErrNone</apiname></xref> signifies
that the defragmentation operation was successful. </p> <p id="GUID-19C6DCE9-739F-5085-92FF-626D74F332B1"><b>Cancelling a defragmentation
operation</b> </p> <p>A defragmentation operation can be cancelled by invoking
the <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita#GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262/GUID-EA6C990F-F5B6-3EA6-97A3-F40AAB35351D"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest::Cancel()</apiname></xref> method. This method cancels
the defragmentation, if it is in progress or is in the queue, and causes it
to complete with <xref href="GUID-6F4A88DA-F54E-3848-9C32-942D6F5F4F3E.dita"><apiname>KErrCancel</apiname></xref>. If the defragmentation operation
has already completed, this method has no effect and the result remains as
it was. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-B4F8543F-538D-5B3A-8F5D-74ACFAAF852F"><title>General defragmentation</title> <p> <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita#GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262/GUID-B4825007-E3DB-3559-9D58-637150EF3DB9"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest::DefragRam()</apiname></xref> initiates a general defragmentation. A general defragmentation attempts
to arrange the currently allocated pages so that only the minimum number and
the most preferable RAM zones required are powered and refreshed. Each time
the general defragmentation successfully empties a RAM zone the base port
invokes the RAM zone call back function with <codeph>aOp = </codeph> <xref href="GUID-74DA7B02-CB90-325D-8A84-454004AEB5C8.dita"><apiname>ERamZoneOp_PowerDown</apiname></xref> see <xref href="GUID-C376486D-B9BF-5D00-8B1A-1527FC1F83AD.dita#GUID-C376486D-B9BF-5D00-8B1A-1527FC1F83AD/GUID-A0273264-8876-523D-B1F0-F6D430FFAECA">RAM
zone call back function</xref>. This informs the base port that it can decide
to, not refresh or power down the empty RAM zone when it deems it to be appropriate. </p> <p>Depending
on the current state of the system and the value of <codeph>aMaxPages</codeph>,
a general defragmentation may require a significant amount of time to complete.
Therefore, if a general defragmentation is performed too frequently the power
saving benefits achieved by powering down or not refreshing RAM zones, may
prove to be less than the power consumed while performing the general defragmentation.
It is recommended that a general defragmentation is only performed once the
device has been idle for a significant period of time. </p> <p><b>aMaxPages </b> </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita#GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262/GUID-B4825007-E3DB-3559-9D58-637150EF3DB9"><apiname> TRamDefragRequest::DefragRam()</apiname></xref> is
similar to the other defragmentation methods, except that it has an additional
parameter <codeph>aMaxPages</codeph>. <codeph>aMaxPages</codeph> specifies
a limit on the number of pages that can be moved during a general defragmentation
when set to zero there is no limit. This can be useful in limiting the amount
of processing a general defragmentation performs and therefore the power consumed
by the general defragmentation. However, setting <codeph>aMaxPages</codeph> too
low may prevent the general defragmentation from being able to empty a single
RAM zone despite there being enough free pages in the most preferable RAM
zones. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-0BEBEE41-A8DB-56F9-9FCE-E9301CC9864F"><title>RAM defragmentation
of Physically contiguous allocations</title> <p>Some devices may define <xref href="GUID-C13DFF33-7C54-5113-9277-CAD96215F075.dita">RAM Zones</xref> for use
by particular applications or hardware peripherals requiring a block of physically
contiguous RAM. <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita#GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262/GUID-8C2CB0BA-6596-3639-90F7-CFEF2D839DB1"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest::ClaimRamZone()</apiname></xref> is used
by the device driver when it requires use of the pre-determined RAM zone to
be used for the block of physically contiguous RAM. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita#GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262/GUID-8C2CB0BA-6596-3639-90F7-CFEF2D839DB1"><apiname> TRamDefragRequest::ClaimRamZone()</apiname></xref> is
similar to the other defragmentation methods, except that it has two extra
parameters: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-25BF6436-C6F1-5495-B622-D68EE38764C5"><p> <codeph>aId</codeph> –
the ID of the RAM zone to be claimed. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B333AD9A-9DEB-5E54-8156-E2FB3587EA9F"><p> <codeph>aPhysAddr</codeph> –
on successful completion of the claim operation this is loaded with the physical
base address of the claimed RAM zone. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>Once a RAM zone has been successfully claimed its memory can be used
by the device driver after being mapped into a <xref href="GUID-51514A4B-0220-557B-9F7A-FB110CEFEF10.dita">shared
chunk</xref>. When the claimed RAM zone is no longer required, the device
driver must use <xref href="GUID-3DC7B5F2-512E-3FF3-BC08-945DDE2AE680.dita#GUID-3DC7B5F2-512E-3FF3-BC08-945DDE2AE680/GUID-89B28752-7371-3EA8-B213-80F599691D7D"><apiname>Epoc::FreePhysicalRam</apiname></xref> to release it for
use by the rest of the system. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-91358408-F617-5F0F-B88B-BE9F205AD5FB"><title>Zone specific
allocations</title> <p>A device driver may attempt to allocate memory from
a specific RAM zone using <xref href="GUID-3DC7B5F2-512E-3FF3-BC08-945DDE2AE680.dita#GUID-3DC7B5F2-512E-3FF3-BC08-945DDE2AE680/GUID-43DE887E-9CE0-397E-9AEF-42A051354AE3"><apiname>Epoc::ZoneAllocPhysicalRam()</apiname></xref>.
If the allocation fails then use <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita#GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262/GUID-866259FA-F7D0-360B-AB5D-A1C170383713"><apiname>TRamDefragRequest::EmptyRamZone()</apiname></xref> to
remove as many pages as is reasonable from the RAM zone. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262.dita#GUID-AE7E0A8E-1513-3F6B-A6D5-150084C4E262/GUID-866259FA-F7D0-360B-AB5D-A1C170383713"><apiname> TRamDefragRequest::EmptyRamZone()</apiname></xref> is
similar to the other defragmentation methods, as described in <xref href="GUID-26621CA5-B686-53FB-AF3E-96CDD38C8520.dita#GUID-26621CA5-B686-53FB-AF3E-96CDD38C8520/GUID-DD63E767-B31C-5311-A4A3-AA6A09B55622">Defragmention of RAM</xref>, except that it has an extra parameter: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-9C78686E-3AE8-56C0-A7B2-EE2138930935"><p>aId – the ID of the
RAM zone to be emptied. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>Once the empty defragmentation operation has completed the RAM zone
specific allocation can be attempted again. However, the RAM zone specific
allocation may still fail in high RAM usage situations or if the RAM zone
has too many fixed pages allocated. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>