<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-EFEBDE65-293C-40AC-B57D-363158E77DA0" xml:lang="en"><title>QT on Symbian</title><shortdesc>Some links to useful information about developing for Symbian
using QT.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-DEED7807-40A8-4711-B42C-BFD4662E8577"><title>Useful
links</title><p>The links below give you a starting point for learning
about
Qt on the Symbian platform.</p><ul>
<li><p><b>Getting started</b></p><ul>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://www.forum.nokia.com/Develop/Qt/Getting_started/" scope="external">Getting started with Qt on Nokia devices</xref> (forum.nokia.com)
— is a very good place to start.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://www.forum.nokia.com/Tools_Docs_and_Code/Tools/IDEs/Nokia_Qt_SDK/" scope="external">Nokia Qt SDK</xref> (forum.nokia.com) — the toolset
you need to go from application concept to a fully tested, ready to
deploy application.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/Qt_for_the_Symbian_Platform_(Product_Overview)" scope="external">Qt for the Symbian platform</xref> (developer.symbian.org)
— describes Qt from a Symbian C++ developer perspective</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://www.forum.nokia.com/Tools_Docs_and_Code/Code_Examples/Qt.xhtml" scope="external">Qt code examples</xref> (forum.nokia.com) — example
applications developed and optimised for mobile devices.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/Qt_&amp;_Symbian_Platform_Security" scope="external">Qt and Symbian Platform Security</xref> (developer.symbian.org)
— an introduction to Symbian's security model and how it works with
Qt.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/Deploying_a_Qt_Application" scope="external">Deploying a Qt Application</xref> (developer.symbian.org)
— how to get your Qt application on other Symbian devices.</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p><b>More detailed information about Qt on Symbian devices</b></p><ul>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://doc.qt.nokia.com/4.6/platform-notes-symbian.html" scope="external">Qt's platform notes for Symbian</xref> (doc.qt.nokia.com)
— describes the status of the port of Qt 4.6 to the Symbian platform.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/Using_Qt_and_Symbian_C++_Together" scope="external">Qt and Symbian C++ together</xref> (developer.symbian.org)
— provides technical details about how to make Qt and Symbian C++
cooperate.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://doc.qt.nokia.com/4.6/qmake-platform-notes.html#symbian-platform" scope="external">qmake extensions for Symbian</xref> (doc.qt.nokia.com)
— Qt's qmake tool has some Symbian-specific extensions.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://qt.nokia.com/developer/nokia-smart-installer-for-symbian" scope="external">Smart installer for Symbian</xref> (forum.nokia.com)
— a tool to package with an application installation file. The tool
checks the version of Qt on the device and downloads the latest version
of Qt if necessary.</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p><b>Support</b></p><ul>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://qt.nokia.com/developer" scope="external">Qt Developer Zone</xref> (qt.nokia.com) — Qt's main
page for developers.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://qt.nokia.com/support" scope="external">Qt's
main support page</xref> (qt.nokia.com) — official support options
from Qt.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://wiki.forum.nokia.com/index.php/Category:Qt" scope="external">Forum Nokia's Qt wiki</xref> (forum.nokia.com) —
wiki articles about Qt on Symbian and MeeGo devices.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://discussion.forum.nokia.com/forum/forumdisplay.php?f=219" scope="external">Qt discussion board</xref> (forum.nokia.com) — find
help from other developers using Qt on Symbian devices.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://wiki.forum.nokia.com/index.php/KnowledgeBase" scope="external">Forum Nokia knowledge base</xref> (forum.nokia.com)
— code snippets, technical solutions, and known issues.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://developer.qt.nokia.com/" scope="external">Qt Developer Network</xref> (qt.nokia.com) — beta
version of the
Qt support network.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://qt.nokia.com/developer/new-qt-apis" scope="external">New Qt APIs</xref> (qt.nokia.com) — information about
the latest updates to Qt.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://qt.nokia.com/products/appdev/add-on-products/catalog/4/new-qt-apis/mobility" scope="external">New Qt APIs for mobile development</xref> (qt.nokia.com)
— information
about QT's latest mobile-related APIs.</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p><b>Qt books</b></p><ul>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://qt.nokia.com/developer/getting-started/getting-started#read-the-official-qt" scope="external">C++ GUI Programming with Qt 4, Second Edition</xref> (qt.nokia.com) — the official Qt book.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="ttp://www.qtrac.eu/C++-GUI-Programming-with-Qt-4-1st-ed.zip" scope="external">C++ GUI Programming with Qt 4, First Edition</xref> (www.qtrac.eu) — this older version of the official Qt book is available
online.</p></li>
<li><p><xref format="html" href="http://eu.wiley.com/WileyCDA/WileyTitle/productCd-0470750103,descCd-tableOfContents.html" scope="external">Qt for Symbian</xref> (eu.wiley.com) — goes into
depth about how Qt works on the Symbian platform.</p></li>
</ul></li>
</ul></section>
</conbody></concept>