<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-356B61D9-0CE4-5FCE-8D74-9795B91C9881"><title>Power Controller Kernel Extension Overview</title><shortdesc>This overview provides a brief description of the power controller kernel extension template implementation. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><section><title>Purpose</title> <p>A power controller is a kernel extension that manages the power management hardware of a phone, for example on-chip power management controllers and oscillators. This topic describes how to implement a power controller in a base port. </p> </section> <section><title>Power controller library details</title> <p>The DLL that provides the functionality and the library to which your code must link is identified below. </p> <table id="GUID-816845A5-546E-5B50-8DED-92F3BB5C2BC3"><tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><thead><row><entry>DLL</entry> <entry>LIB</entry> <entry>Short description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <filepath> power.dll</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <filepath>None</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Variant specific power manager kernel extension. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> <section><title>Description</title> <p>A power controller implementation depends on the specific power management hardware and is typically variant-dependent. The power controller class (<xref href="GUID-B3D1C422-6A82-3C6E-9123-1E4F598F0366.dita"><apiname>DPowerController</apiname></xref>) has a template implementation in <filepath>power.dll</filepath>. This library contains interface and support functions for the power controller class. </p> </section> <section><title>Using the power controller</title> <p>The <filepath>DPowerController</filepath> class defines the interface that any power controller implementation must provide to the generic kernel-side power manager. It also provides the power controller with an API to the power manager. </p> <p>The DLL is made up of these template files: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-21BCF60F-458B-52C7-8340-5CCFBDDF9609"><p>power.cpp </p> </li> </ul> <p>In the v9.5 implementation, the <xref href="GUID-4804B6E0-9199-5F3E-984A-4B00B3984E45.dita">Power Resource Manager</xref> (PRM) handles the power manager functionality. </p> </section> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-4804B6E0-9199-5F3E-984A-4B00B3984E45.dita"><linktext>Power Resource Manager</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-34D1D0BF-20DE-5677-A067-8FF9DD72E703.dita"><linktext>Power Controller
                Implementation Tutorial</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>