<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-6D8A1FC7-095B-587E-8274-23C132978C53" xml:lang="en"><title>Enabling
the Graphics Architecture Variants</title><shortdesc>There are two variants of the graphics architecture. These are
referred to as the ScreenPlay and the Non-ScreenPlay variants, respectively.
This topic describes how to build and enable these two variants.  </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-FF8E36E5-83D3-42AE-9CE7-97166E1B9BB9"><title>Enabling the
ScreenPlay variant</title><p>To enable ScreenPlay using OpenWF Composition
(OpenWF-C), declare the following variant macros in the <filepath>Symbian_OS.hrh</filepath> file: </p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">SYMBIAN_BUILD_GCE
SYMBIAN_GRAPHICS_BUILD_OPENWF_WSERV</codeblock><p>To select the ScreenPlay
variant in the emulator, add the following line to the <filepath>epoc.ini</filepath> file: </p><codeblock id="GUID-1B30B0A9-4DC8-5377-B269-6F0E153B7FB4" xml:space="preserve">SYMBIAN_GRAPHICS_USE_GCE ON</codeblock><p>The
Symbian OpenWF-C implementation provides support for the emulator only.</p></section>

<section id="GUID-90D11BF6-3D26-4F73-B130-6711EADE35D7"><title>Enabling the
non-ScreenPlay variant</title> <p>By default, the non-ScreenPlay versions
of the components are built in addition to the ScreenPlay ones and are included
in the ROM. For some of the components that are present in both variants (such
as Window Server, BitGDI and Screen Driver), different binaries are produced
for the two variants. </p> <p>Selecting the correct components is relatively
straightforward when running and testing on hardware, because the choice is
made at ROM build time. However, it is more complicated on the emulator, because
the choice is made at runtime. Screen Driver is particularly significant in
this respect because it is an adaptation component that can be modified by
device creators. </p> <p>If you extend the interface of the Screen Driver
DLL (that is, you change the <filepath>.def</filepath> file or introduce new
exports compared to the reference component), and want to build for the emulator,
you need to regenerate the switch code as well. Although this is relatively
easy, it can be confusing. The steps are as follows: </p> <ol id="GUID-76039660-7048-58B1-9EF2-96021A311823">
<li id="GUID-EE40F32B-BE13-55BE-AE69-40D28D191A51"><p>Update the exports. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-880C0C95-93A6-54A6-B280-875E3C03F7FA"><p>Make the following files
writable: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-C06C5DEF-1D66-5122-AE34-14CF3F9AD74A"><p>The header (<filepath>.h</filepath>)
file in the <filepath>Graphics\screendriver\scdv_switch</filepath> directory. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-376268D3-FA57-544F-88CC-F369319CCBF1"><p>The <filepath>scdvswitchu.def</filepath> file
in the corresponding <filepath>..\bwins</filepath> directory. </p> </li>
</ul> </li>
<li id="GUID-0863DFA5-223A-56AA-9D28-6CDA9E7B6160"><p>Run the <filepath>generate_stubs.pl</filepath> Perl
script to update these files. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F93CC2A8-C72B-554E-ADA4-34B8098789B8"><p>Rebuild the component. </p> </li>
</ol>  </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-D93978BE-11A3-5CE3-B110-1DEAA5AD566C.dita"><linktext>The ScreenPlay
Graphics Architecture</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-EF62BF88-3687-505D-8BD7-EEDF36246E56.dita"><linktext>Graphics
Hardware Acceleration</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-F64E6551-670E-5E12-8103-DE504D3EC94F.dita"><linktext>The Non-ScreenPlay
Graphics Architecture</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-946E64D6-3E5D-5264-AD5D-29D3AD296543.dita"><linktext>Selection
of Adaptations</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>