<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-ACDED56F-38FE-491D-B019-BE2C53A75D28" xml:lang="en"><title>Data
caging</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Data caging means that the applications and the users have access only
to certain areas of the file system. In practice the applications can access
their own private folders and folders that are marked as open. It means, for
example, that one application cannot access the private folder and data of
another application. There are restricted file storage areas for system, private,
and resource data.</p>
<p>The file system has the following structure:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>The <codeph>\sys</codeph> folder is the restricted system
area. You need <codeph>AllFiles</codeph> capability to read the content, and
Trusted Computing Base (<codeph>TCB</codeph>) capability to modify the content.</p>
<p>The subfolder <codeph>\sys\bin\</codeph> contains all binaries (<codeph>exe</codeph>, <codeph>dll</codeph>,
etc.). All binaries must have a different name. An application can only be
launched from this subfolder.</p></li>
<li><p>The <parmname>\private\</parmname> folder includes folders
for all applications.</p><p>The <codeph>\private\&lt;SID&gt;\</codeph> subfolder
contains private data only to be accessed by the application itself. SID is
determined by the <xref href="GUID-3B6E25F7-C1A8-461F-97F7-421DB559BC98.dita#GUID-3B6E25F7-C1A8-461F-97F7-421DB559BC98/GUID-EEC50FC0-46D5-4ED7-AD95-67430D5EC652">Secure
Identifier</xref> of the process. Without any capabilities you can read and
write only in the application's own directory. You need <codeph>AllFiles</codeph> capability
to access all private directories. Backup software can read and write to this
directory.</p><p>The <codeph>\private\&lt;SID&gt;\import\</codeph> subfolder
is for resource files, such as registration files, that are not directly related
to the application. You can write into this subfolder only after it is created
and named correctly.</p><p>Application registration resource files should
be installed in the <parmname>\private\10003a3f\import\apps</parmname> subfolder.</p>
</li>
<li><p>The <parmname>\resource</parmname> folder is for sharing
resource files.  This data can be icons, bitmaps, and other material useful
for all the applications. You do not need any capabilities to read these files.
You need <codeph>TCB</codeph> capability to modify the content.</p><p>ECom
registration resource files should be installed in the <parmname>\resource\plugins</parmname> subfolder.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>For more information, see <xref href="jar:GUID-35228542-8C95-4849-A73F-2B4F082F0C44.jar!/sdk/doc_source/guide/Base-subsystem-guide/f32/FileServerClientSide/FileServerClientSideGuide5/ApplicationArchitecture.guide.html" format="application/java-archive">File
locations</xref>.</p>
</conbody></concept>