<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-180973A1-5C0A-5A85-82CC-E6B739A7F207" xml:lang="en"><title>Validation</title><shortdesc>Describes the test code to validate a port of the MMC Controller.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>There are three stages involved in testing a port of the MultiMediaCard
controller. The first stage tests the controller in isolation; subsequent
stages test an additional area of functionality. </p>
<p>All three stages involve text shell based test programs and test drivers,
and therefore these tests can be run by just building a text shell ROM. You
can also run tests on the Emulator. </p>
<section id="GUID-AB3EBD9F-49E9-5C9C-ACFB-377997C2A838"><title>Testing the
controller in isolation</title> <p> <filepath>MMCTEST.EXE</filepath> tests
the MultiMediaCard controller in isolation, at the controller’s client interface
level. Since the controller’s client API is a kernel side interface, this
requires a test driver, <filepath>D_MMCIF.LDD</filepath>, as well as the test
program itself. </p> <p>This is not a 'go/no-go' type test, but is a test
utility that can perform a small variety of operations. These are selected
a simple interactive way by pressing appropriate keys. </p> <table id="GUID-A5C02651-82A2-57DB-8BCF-D1EF5F72902A">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Building <filepath>MMCTEST.EXE</filepath> and <filepath>D_MMCIF.LDD</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The source and header files needed to build <filepath>MMCTEST.EXE</filepath> can
be found in <filepath>...\e32utils\pccd</filepath>; the mmp file is <filepath>...\e32utils\group\mmctest.mmp</filepath>. </p> <p>The
source and header files needed to build the test driver <filepath>D_MMCIF.LDD</filepath> can
be found in <filepath>...\e32utils\pccd</filepath>; the mmp file is <filepath>...\e32utils\group\d_mmcif.mmp</filepath>. </p> <p>You
need to build <filepath>MMCTEST.EXE</filepath> for the appropriate CPU target
architecture (e.g. ARMI,THUMB etc.); you need to build <filepath>D_MMCIF.LDD</filepath> for
the appropriate platform (e.g. MINT). </p> <p>Include both of these components
in a ROM </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Running the tests </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Run MMCTEST and perform the following suggested sequence: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-3685E0AA-B3D5-5A30-B6FF-04DE7A53EBCF"><p>Without a card inserted,
power up the stack by pressing <userinput>P</userinput>, and check that it
reports that no card is present. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-BA816CD0-3FA1-54C3-8480-7F82BA338119"><p>Insert a card, power
it up, and check that it reports that a card is present. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-29403BEA-814F-5F54-85B1-8E598E67BB72"><p>Now that the card is
powered up, read the card info by pressing <userinput>C</userinput>, and check
the data returned about the card against the expected card data, by referring
to the datasheet for the card. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7C7542B2-F46A-5183-8256-1E962094A9B7"><p>Read the first sector
of the card by pressing <userinput>M</userinput>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B6F5D3F1-2CF9-55B3-8EAF-4672EBE9B1A9"><p>Now read a few more
sectors by pressing the space bar. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-15FBBB20-8914-566B-A786-BB470312A7D0"><p>Test writing to a sector:
while still viewing a sector, edit a part of this, by using the direction
keys and typing in a hex number. Now save the change by pressing <userinput>ESC</userinput>,
followed by <userinput>Y</userinput>. Now navigate to the same sector again
and check that it displays the new contents of the sector. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-23809955-30D3-5B53-85B6-890C75E63957"><p>Quit the test by pressing <userinput>Q</userinput>. </p> </li>
</ul> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
<section id="GUID-9A353066-CE24-5969-B0FD-3F1164ECF3F5"><title>Testing the
controller with the media driver and the local media sub-system</title> <ol id="GUID-323C60B8-36B4-5975-AECC-659F68AB560D">
<li id="GUID-97E060B0-8355-54E3-AA35-7FF9B9D59119"><p> <filepath>DRVTEST.EXE</filepath> tests
the MultiMediaCard controller in conjunction with the media driver and the
local media sub-system, in effect accessing the card as a local drive. This
requires a kernel side test driver <filepath>D_DRVIF.LDD</filepath> as well
as the test program itself. </p> <p>This is not a 'go/no-go' type test, but
is a test utility that can perform a small variety of operations. These are
selected a simple interactive way by pressing appropriate keys. It is used
to test that card initialisation and single block read and write requests
are performed successfully. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-BCCDA1BB-7205-5C0D-A0CC-607E44196624"><p> <filepath>T_ATADRV.EXE</filepath> tests
that card initialisation and simple read and write requests succeed. It also
tests multi-block read/write operations, format requests, accessing the device
following a media change event, and a machine power down event. </p> <p>This
is a 'go/no-go' type test. If this test succeeds, you can have fairly high
confidence that the F32 test suite will run successfully. </p> </li>
</ol> <table id="GUID-D29E7820-6241-5B6E-B242-4B7037BA7344">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Building <filepath>DRVTEST.EXE</filepath>, <filepath>D_DRVIF.LDD</filepath>,
and <filepath>T_ATADRV.EXE</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The source and header files needed to build <filepath>DRVTEST.EXE</filepath> can
be found in <filepath>...\e32utils\pccd</filepath>; the mmp file is <filepath>...\e32utils\group\drvtest.mmp</filepath>. </p> <p>The
source and header files needed to build the test driver <filepath>D_DRVIF.LDD</filepath> can
be found in <filepath>...\e32utils\pccd</filepath>; the mmp file is <filepath>...\e32utils\group\d_drvif.mmp</filepath>. </p> <p>The
source and header files needed to build <filepath>T_ATADRV.EXE</filepath> can
be found in <filepath>...\e32test\pccd</filepath>; the mmp file is <filepath>...\e32test\group\t_atadrv.mmp</filepath>. </p> <p>You
need to build <filepath>DRVTEST.EXE</filepath> for the appropriate CPU target
architecture (e.g. ARMI,THUMB etc.) </p> <p>You need to build <filepath>D_DRVIF.LDD</filepath> for
the appropriate platform (e.g. MINT) </p> <p>You need to build <filepath>T_ATADRV</filepath> for
the appropriate CPU target architecture (e.g. ARMI,THUMB). </p> <p>Include
these components in a ROM. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Running the DRVTEST test </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Run DRVTEST and perform the following suggested sequence: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-22D82528-84D3-58C8-83F1-63B9D63976D0"><p>Without a card inserted,
power up the stack by pressing <userinput>P</userinput>, and check that it
reports that no card is present. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-646F1CE2-6F6E-58D1-A097-2675CC0285D6"><p>Insert a card, power
it up, and check that it reports that a card is present. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-76B81B73-0F7E-57DE-AEE2-67E03E9422A2"><p>Now that the card is
powered up, read the card info by pressing <userinput>C</userinput>, and check
the data returned about the card against the expected card data, by referring
to the datasheet for the card. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-FD9CC21C-5818-5405-B0BA-B5E5344D715F"><p>Read the first sector
of the card by pressing <userinput>M</userinput>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B7EF88BE-D2CB-5E8F-844B-47F1A461CC82"><p>Now read a few more
sectors by pressing the <userinput>space                         bar</userinput>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-96527F35-52E7-5400-AEB1-E7D05D4420C5"><p>Test writing to a sector:
while still viewing a sector, edit a part of this, by using the direction
keys and typing in a hex number. Now save the change by pressing <userinput>ESC</userinput>,
followed by <userinput>Y</userinput>. Now navigate to the same sector again
and check that it displays the new contents of the sector. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-D91CFC9A-C544-5E32-BCAE-3B2BA558AF63"><p>Quit the test by pressing <userinput>Q</userinput>. </p> </li>
</ul> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Running the T_ATADRV test </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Run T_ATADRV and follow the on-screen instructions. Check that the
test runs to the end with no errors. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
<section id="GUID-9AD20A90-0E4D-56BC-A681-833EBD632DF6"><title> Testing using
the F32 test suite</title> <p>The final test stage is to run the entire file
server test suite on a card drive. </p> <p>To perform these tests: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-1C50C6E5-E811-5DFE-8814-F4B18648E389"><p>build a text shell ROM
that contains the F32 test suite, i.e. build the ROM with the option: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-892CC775-89C7-5B48-AE44-5D63E7A030FD" xml:space="preserve">-t=f32tests</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-2A5BE4AA-9762-525F-9391-D839153C41F5"><p>boot the test machine
into the text shell. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C9A22A2C-58F6-59A4-BB85-6D69703520F9"><p>launch the F32 automatic
tests and check that all of the tests run without error. Use the command option
"-d" to set the default drive, for example: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-08A2E18B-7CA8-5124-B46E-88311D468C4E" xml:space="preserve">RUNTESTS F32TEST.AUTO.ARMI.BAT -d d</codeblock> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-57378A6B-B5FB-5EFF-9FD4-6F948B5F20D1"><title>Emulator-based
tests</title> <p>It is possible to emulate a user opening and closing the
MMC drive door, replacing and removing the MMC card, and assigning a password
to an emulated MMC card. This is important so that you can test: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-2B8F603F-FC12-57E2-B4A7-E86653DAD5C5"><p>how an application behaves
when the MMC card, from which the application is running, is removed and/or
swapped </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-D110DBEA-7070-557E-982A-8A34FACC7256"><p>how an application behaves
when it is reading and writing data to and from an MMC card </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-E714BBF6-A97F-5D4A-9D45-A7B8C12238F4"><p>that data stored on
an MMC card is not lost or corrupted during MMC drive events </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-EC779E31-2A94-51D4-B93D-4C9C2811726A"><p>that MMC card locking
and password notification works correctly. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>The platform independent layer of the MuiltiMediaCard controller,
as its name implies, is common to all platforms, including the emulator. However,
the emulator provides its own implementation of the platform specific layer. </p> <p>The
emulator does not provide access to any kind of MultiMediaCard hardware. Instead,
the memory area of each emulated card is represented by a file, a <filepath>.bin</filepath> type
file in the Windows system <filepath>temp</filepath> directory, on the host
machine. The MultiMediaCard emulator emulates a single stack containing two
separate cards, the first in slot 0, and the second in slot 1. Each emulated
card has an associated <filepath>.bin</filepath> file on the host machine.
As the emulator only supports the swapping of cards in slot 0, there are two <filepath>.bin</filepath> files,
one for each of the two emulated MMC cards in slot 0. There is no support
for card swapping on slot 1, and therefore this has only one <filepath>.bin</filepath> file. </p> <p>This
means that all the test programs described can be run on the emulator, and
they will exercise the platform independent layer code in the same way as
on real target hardware. It also means that call entries to, and exits from
platform specific layer code can be traced, and may be useful for debugging
problems on real hardware, and to help understand how the controller operates. </p> <p>The
code for the emulator specific layer code can be found in <filepath>...\wins\specific\mmc.cpp</filepath>. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>