<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-A1227CAE-EE08-5EAF-8D15-81465467C0C0" xml:lang="en"><title>Application
Engines </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-85D629ED-30D4-5608-A816-07BD375C6A76"><title>Calendar</title> <p> <xref href="GUID-00631ED2-1B7F-5FC4-9E81-4B6DF7946631.dita">Calendar</xref> allows a
user to store and manage a collection of calendar events and to-do items.
A calendar event represents a scheduled amount of time, such as a team meeting.
To-do items represent action-items or a task assigned to an individual. Electronic
schedule exchange is provided using the vCalendar 1.0 standard. </p> <p>The
Calendar API provides access to calendar stores, with functionality to fetch,
update, save and delete calendar entries. This functionality complies with
the standard RFC 2445, which defines a common format for openly exchanging
calendar and scheduling information across the internet. New functionality
includes: attachment support, defining geographic locations, logging, expanded
search capabilities and support for removable media. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-5F20F757-46F6-5652-AB0F-6B22DBB61111"><title>Contacts Model</title> <p>The
Contacts Model is an engine component that provides access to contact information
stored on a Symbian device. Just like a real-world address book it stores
and organises names, telephone numbers, addresses and other details of individuals
and companies. It can be used to: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-2A32B258-B59F-5BA2-998A-AFEA77065C46"><p>add, delete and edit
data </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0DF77DE5-267B-54BB-AD9F-1A05C9FCE0C5"><p>provide information
to clients </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-BD1AED25-AA07-5053-9A03-34F8863036D0"><p>sort and search contacts. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>The component provides a unified interface for accessing contact
information that is stored in the phone’s internal store or on an integrated
circuit card (such as a SIM/USIM). The data store contains a collection of
contact items. An item can be: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-B60D8D4A-B32A-54AC-8015-C1145BB88EE1"><p>a contact card, such
as a particular person </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-5024C061-C9B3-5C33-A1B7-65C618E393A6"><p>an own card (the phone
owner’s card) </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B98D42E5-A5A7-5F7F-814B-DACAF67A67CB"><p>a template for creating
other contact items </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B998990E-BA67-5941-AC5F-53D1CE949345"><p>a contact group, such
as a collection of contact cards. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>Electronic business card exchange is provided using the vCard 2.1
standard. vCard 3.0 Export for PBAP capability has been added in Symbian OS
v9.2. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>