<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-D089C2E9-1BE4-4B37-B8A8-21E5B2425E6C" xml:lang="en"><title>SDIO
Technology Guide</title><shortdesc>Provides information about the concepts and the uses of the SDIO
card.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-075122CD-EA1E-4567-9D0F-5DFA548DA883">       <title>Purpose</title> 
     <p>The Secure Digital Input/Output (SDIO) is based on the SD memory cards.
The SDIO cards enable high speed data transfers between two SD devices. The
SDIO consumes low power and is efficient to be used in the mobile devices.
The SDIO cards are designed as a super set of SD cards and uses start topology.
The SDIO card controllers support the SDIO cards with or without the memory.
The purpose of the SDIO SHAI is to enable easy development of the SDIO card
controllers.</p>     </section>
<section id="GUID-57C125FF-4196-40D7-B1E5-DDA292076916"><title>Key concepts</title><ul>
<li><p><b>SDIO controller:</b></p> implements functions needed for peripherals
to comply with the SDIO standard and to connect to SDIO host devices. It also
manages access to the SDIO card hardware interface and provides an API for
class drivers to access SDIO card functions.</li>
</ul><ul>
<li><p><b> Stack:</b></p> handles multiple requests simultaneously.  It internally
schedules the requests onto the bus and allocates the appropriate card to
transfer data accordingly.</li>
</ul><ul>
<li><p><b>Session:</b></p> sets up a session object to perform SDIO specific
command sequences.</li>
</ul><ul>
<li><p><b>Interface:</b></p> allow single byte read/write operations to a
given register address together with the corresponding ones for multi-byte
access. </li>
</ul></section>
<section id="GUID-16D2B044-0E5A-4126-ADAC-B297C4B616F8"><title>Typical Uses</title><ul>
<li><p>Powering up stack containing a single SDIO Card.</p></li>
<li><p>Sending a command to PSL.</p></li>
<li><p>Acquiring new cards into the SDIO stack.</p></li>
<li><p>Configuring an SDIO card.</p></li>
</ul></section>
</conbody></concept>