<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-586A88EC-45CC-504B-BB75-9BD88233D88F" xml:lang="en"><title>Configuring
the msgPriorityDriveList.ini file</title><shortdesc>A list of priority drives with priority set to each drive is maintained
by Message Server. The list supports only seven drives out of which one must
be the device system drive.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<prereq id="GUID-E3BEB74D-79C7-59A9-9366-CCD8B52DB7F8-GENID-1-12-1-21-1-1-6-1-5-1-5-1-3-1-5-1-3-1"><p>Before you start,
you must understand <xref href="GUID-05A20EED-7333-5136-A9D3-D86D32D89D67.dita">Handling
Multiple Disk Drives</xref>. </p> </prereq>
<context id="GUID-6799E3F3-353E-5C00-A38C-D32F888392AA-GENID-1-12-1-21-1-1-6-1-5-1-5-1-3-1-5-1-3-2"><p>Before updating
the file, read the following considerations: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-397B18BA-A5DB-59B5-9DA1-DB9B0A6CEAC8"><p>The drive list is read
by message server only if the list is not already present in the central repository. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3FA363BA-279E-5792-B869-F210F2BEF9BC"><p>The drive list must
be an ordered list, with the highest priority drive at the beginning of the
list. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-036DD706-3270-5E2D-B3BC-DF7ED6808573"><p>The first drive in the
list which is either empty or has a valid message store will be the current
drive. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-60DAA27A-E3B9-5F0B-9B58-CB73D6D8E0D5"><p>The device system drive
must be present in the preferred drive list. If the drive is not mentioned
in the list, it will be appended at the end of the preferred drive list. The
last drive hence mentioned below will be removed from the list. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-6C1FF149-6776-5B70-94C7-D15F9284A1B4"><p>If there are more than
seven drives are mentioned in the list below, only first seven drives will
be read. </p> </li>
</ul> </context>
<steps-unordered>
<step id="GUID-4D19E289-64DA-4EE3-9AF3-A3DDDD43CBF3"><cmd>To include the priority
drives to the <filepath>msgPriorityDriveList.ini</filepath> file, modify it,
before building the Messaging Middleware module. </cmd>
<info><note> The <filepath>msgPriorityDriveList.ini</filepath> file holds
the list of drives that must be the part of a priority drive list. </note></info>
</step>
</steps-unordered>
<example id="GUID-4A2F5CA7-6571-5B53-86B7-FB77F3AB6CDA-GENID-1-12-1-21-1-1-6-1-5-1-5-1-3-1-5-1-3-4"><title>msgPriorityDriveList.ini
example</title> <codeblock id="GUID-B4EBD883-8935-54BF-B3AE-8CF96622BA3C" xml:space="preserve"># The preferred drive list.

PriorityDrive1 = C
PriorityDrive2 = D
PriorityDrive3 = E
PriorityDrive4 = F
PriorityDrive5 = G
PriorityDrive6 = H
PriorityDrive7 = I</codeblock> </example>
</taskbody></task>