<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-D9D2A600-89C6-5D82-8BC0-2C60D8F6517A"><title>Video HAI Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This document provides an overview of the Video HAI (Hardware Adaptation Interface) component. </p> <section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The Video HAI component provides a hardware abstraction layer for video playing and recording. </p> </section> <section><title>Required Background</title> <p>The <xref href="GUID-CC96F41D-5AC9-5D11-BD4D-073548EA5CC8.dita">Hardware Adaptation Interfaces Overview</xref> provides an introduction to the Video HAI and related components. </p> </section> <section><title>Architectural Relationships</title> <p>The Video HAI component interacts with the following components: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-88735269-7558-5B51-B203-40C4C874CA60"><p>Multimedia Framework </p> <p>The MMF loads the appropriate video controller plug-ins, and then those video controller plug-ins use the framework to access the HAI. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-E0CC3C83-3716-5769-BF89-C47B921F45EF"><p>Media Device Framework </p> <p>The MDF provides the codec interface for video codecs. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>API Summary</title> <p>The Video HAI component includes the following APIs: </p> <table id="GUID-0B3DBE66-F733-5B41-8B5A-6AC014B3701B"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><thead><row><entry>API</entry> <entry>Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <b> DevVideo</b>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Library providing video decoding and encoding hardware acceleration. </p> <p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-EB58901D-66BD-56BF-B0CD-5FC4F73F06F3.dita">DevVideo Overview</xref>. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> <section><title>Typical Uses</title> <p>The Video HAI component is used to: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-426D10B6-CD99-52EE-B21D-BFD388E41642"><p>Configure video decoding and post-processing. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-8D18429D-4AF4-5F8E-A68B-A6A07806D6F5"><p>Control video playback. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-FA31164C-758A-5340-BC00-558396805C48"><p>Configure video encoding and pre-processing. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-3ADB9D2F-CBD7-5585-B81E-85ED9DFEF189"><p>Control video recording. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>See Also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-2DC80BA9-7AA2-5CD3-9105-1DE28CE196C1.dita">Video Client Overview</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-55CC7AD4-4C6A-5804-ABFD-F71505C77169.dita">Media Device Framework Overview</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-2D3F7471-9B92-5E49-B8BC-E0FA7AA709D7.dita">DevSound Overview</xref>  </p> </section> </conbody></concept>