<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-EAEE54D0-4580-5BE7-AA16-4ABC216B4EB0" xml:lang="en"><title>How
to list directories and files</title><shortdesc>This topic describe show to list directories and files together
and separately.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The list of a directory's contents can obtained by using two variants of
the function <codeph>RFs::GetDir()</codeph>. Both variants provide a filtered
list of files and directories; the second additionally provides a separate
list containing directories only. Both variants use an attribute mask to filter
the entry types. </p>
<p>The following sections assume that some directories and a file have been
created in a directory <filepath>FileserverExample</filepath>, and then lists
them in alphabetical order.</p>
<section id="GUID-75A55F3B-D29B-48D3-B4DB-D907FA8F29E7"><title>Listing directories and files together</title> <ol id="GUID-EF43DF74-3059-50A2-854A-59985457877B">
<li id="GUID-5781228A-BDB8-5E80-AFFF-9B0CB1E574A9"><p>Declare a <codeph>CDir</codeph> pointer.
This type holds an array of directory entries.</p> </li>
<li id="GUID-184CBE11-E62C-542F-9F95-718960F72639"><p>Use <codeph>GetDir()</codeph> to
get a single list, in the <codeph>CDir</codeph> object, which can contain
both file and directory entries.</p> <p>Use <codeph>KEntryAttMaskSupported</codeph> to
indicate all five file attributes, and the directory attribute.</p> <p>Use <codeph>ESortByName</codeph> to
order the entries alphabetically.</p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3AD0DD32-B772-5B9B-A3BF-32DAC34D00E3"><p><codeph>CDir::operator[]()</codeph> can
be used to get the attributes, name, size and modification date and time of
the <codeph>TEntry</codeph> at the specified index within the array. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-BCD0DB7B-8329-5C3F-B194-68D77FB1C9C5"><p>Delete the <codeph>CDir</codeph> object
after use.</p> </li>
</ol> <codeblock id="GUID-5C104BEF-855C-55F3-8648-3DB6285A3607" xml:space="preserve">
_LIT(KDir,"\\FileserverExample\\*");
CDir* dirList;
User::LeaveIfError(fsSession.GetDir(KDir,
        KEntryAttMaskSupported,ESortByName,dirList));
_LIT(KString,"%S");
for (TInt i=0;i&lt;dirList-&gt;Count();i++)
    console-&gt;Printf(KString,&amp;(*dirList)[i].iName);
delete dirList;</codeblock> <p><b>Notes</b> </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-6BACC898-1046-52BF-9338-445C4685DFA6"><p><codeph>GetDir()</codeph> supports
the use of the two <keyword>wildcard</keyword> characters: <filepath>*</filepath> (meaning
any sequence of characters within any part of a component), and <filepath>?</filepath> (meaning
any single character).</p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-C3AE6F4F-C1E4-4F37-B638-ABC952E6D5BD"><title>Listing directories and files separately</title> <p>If you
want files and directories to be listed separately, another variant of <codeph>GetDir()</codeph> should
be used. On return, the first list contains only files, the second directories.</p> <ol id="GUID-EE1E3D1B-109C-50B4-814F-1AA37105E8DE">
<li id="GUID-ACE8E30C-3784-552F-B2F1-8A5C7ACE52CA"><p>Use <codeph>GetDir()</codeph> to
provide a list of directories and files and additionally a separate list of
directories only.</p> </li>
<li id="GUID-5B68A082-7725-5F05-BCB0-2B8513803001"><p>If the attribute mask <codeph>KEntryAttNormal</codeph> is
used, no system or hidden files or directories are included in the file list.</p> </li>
</ol> <codeblock id="GUID-E8D48A34-62EA-588C-9B10-36B87CCF27D6" xml:space="preserve">CDir* fileList;
User::LeaveIfError(fsSession.GetDir(KDir,
        KEntryAttNormal,ESortByName,fileList,dirList));</codeblock> </section>
</conbody></concept>