<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-102CD904-4217-53DA-A9F0-77D76C938FB5"><title>SMS Stack Observers</title><shortdesc>The SMS stack provides two observers. Set SMS Bearer observer and Set Receive Mode observer. Both the observers are created and deleted by the SMS protocol class (SMSPROT). </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><section id="GUID-8C229902-4427-5388-A3B6-1DA7C89A6971"><title>Set SMS bearer observer</title> <p>The Set SMS observer tracks the bearer settings in the communication database. The set SMS observer changes the bearer settings in the telephony server, when the SMS bearer settings are changed in the communication database. The SMS messages can be sent using the circuit switched and packet switched bearers. If the observer attempts to change a setting in the telephony server that is not supported , the observer class returns a <xref href="GUID-3E04196D-68E4-315A-BAA6-C003DDE2EB2E.dita"><apiname>KErrNotSupprted</apiname></xref> to the client applications. </p> </section> <section id="GUID-84F5ABEB-AD46-5EE8-BDFF-1D70CD803400"><title>Set receive mode observer</title> <p>The Set receive mode observer sets the receive mode in the telephony server. The communication database settings of SMS receive mode are monitored by the Set receive mode observer. When there is a change to the receive mode settings in the communication database, the set receive mode observer sets the receive mode in the telephony server. The receive mode settlings are used by the SMS stack to generate the status report message and also to store the messages. </p> </section> </conbody></concept>