<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-32756B46-DAB7-44FA-B710-33EC36E1409F" xml:lang="en"><title>List
browsing</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>In a list, browsing is possible in two directions: pressing the Arrow up
key moves the focus one step up (backward), and pressing the Arrow down key
moves the focus one step down (forward).</p>
<p>When browsing, the item in focus must always be visible. The detailed rules
of moving the focus are as follows:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>If the choice item that is becoming focused is already fully visible,
all the items remain in their current positions, and the highlight is moved
from the old item to the new item. </p></li>
<li><p>If the new choice item is not visible, all items are moved in the view
to the appropriate direction so that the new item becomes fully visible. For
example, if the focus is moving down and the new item is currently below the
bottom edge of the view, the items are moved up. </p></li>
<li><p>When moving the choice items in the view, they are only moved the minimum
amount necessary. For example, when moving items up to get the next one under
the bottom edge visible, the item moves to the lowest allowed position in
the view.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>By default, all lists loop. This means that it is possible to browse forward
from the last choice item, which leads to the first item in the list, and
vice versa.</p>
<p>It is possible to specify that a list is a queue. This means that it is
not allowed to browse forward from the last item or browse backward from the
first item. If the user attempts this, the list does not react; there is no
feedback except for the normal keypad tone.</p>
</conbody></concept>