<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-249E8EE2-5334-4CA2-93AB-4010E6404D11" xml:lang="en"><title>OMA
DRM v2.0</title><shortdesc>The OMA Digital Rights Management (DRM) v2.0 specification provides
stronger content protection and improved functionality for rich media content,
such as music and video. The specification enables an end-to-end DRM system
that takes into account the need for secure distribution, authentication of
devices, revocation and other aspects. The Symbian platform supports the mandatory
features of the OMA DRM v2.0 specification.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The improved security, compared with OMA DRM v1.0, is achieved by using:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Bilateral authentication between the rights issuers and devices</p></li>
<li><p>Public key infrastructure (PKI) certificates and online revocation
checks</p></li>
<li><p>Protection of the confidentiality and integrity of the rights objects</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Improved functionality and usability are achieved, for example, by providing
enhanced preview functions and mechanisms for sharing content within a registered
community of devices, called a domain. </p>
<p>The OMA DRM v2.0 specification as such is not mobile-specific, which means
that there can be OMA DRM v2.0 non-mobile devices, such as PC software, thus
enabling better interaction and content transferability between devices.</p>
<p>In the Symbian platform, OMA DRM v2.0 is enabled for music
and video files via HTTP or OMA download. For more information on the OMA
DRM v2.0 features that are supported in the Symbian platform, see <xref href="GUID-EAF3FCBE-A68C-4881-A461-774D481DD315.dita">Supported
OMA DRM v2.0 features</xref>.
For more information on supported OMA DRM v2.1 features, see <xref href="GUID-09A4172E-DB54-4ADF-A718-8100154A6031.dita">OMA DRM
v2.1</xref>.</p>
<section id="GUID-4D792C94-43D5-44CD-BE3E-677819F4436F"><title>Silent rights
object acquisition</title><p>Silent rights object acquisition means that no
DRM-specific notifications are shown during the acquisition if the feature
is enabled in the media file. The OMA DRM specification defines two types
of silent rights URL:</p><ul>
<li><p>On-demand</p><p>Rights object is acquired when the user tries to open
the file.</p></li>
<li><p>In-advanced</p><p>Rights object is acquired at the earliest possible
time.</p></li>
</ul><p>The Symbian platform supports only on-demand silent rights acquisition.
The in-advanced type is treated similarly as on-demand. </p></section>
<section id="GUID-D3DD4B99-351F-43FF-B911-5DF87FEF09AA"><title>Transaction
tracking</title><p>Transaction tracking allows the <xref href="GUID-788FCBFA-B4FB-4001-B838-4B59995E2E33.dita">rights
issuer</xref> to track the content flow from one user to another via superdistribution.
The rights issuer includes a <codeph>TransactionID</codeph> in the rights
object, which allows the rights issuer to build a reward mechanism, for example.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-CBBDB66E-7D4E-4931-A886-524D17529AAD"><title>PKI requirements</title><p>In
the PKI, secret data is encrypted with the recipient's public key. Only the
recipient can open the content with the private key. This private key system
is sometimes known as symmetric cryptography and the public key system as
asymmetric cryptography. PKI makes sure that both the mobile device and server
are authenticated. The key in the mobile device identifies the mobile device
and the key in the server identifies the server. The device key is stored
by using data caging. If the key is lost, the downloading rights are revoked,
but usage rights still apply.</p><p>In addition to the software implementation
in the Symbian platform, each device must have the keys and certificates listed
below:</p><ul>
<li><p>Device private key</p></li>
<li><p>Public certificates</p></li>
<li><p>Device certification authority (CA) certificate</p></li>
<li><p>CA root certificate</p></li>
</ul><note><p>The Symbian platform does not provide PKI keys, certificates,
or server infrastructure. <xref href="http://www.cm-la.com" scope="external">Content
Management License Administrator</xref> is a known PKI provider for OMA DRM
v2.0. The DRM implementation in the Symbian platform is prepared for CMLA,
but it is not certified, because only devices can be certified by CMLA.</p></note></section>
</conbody></concept>