<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-8F5FAFAB-545A-5BF0-A3B5-6499F2D1AAD0"><title>MTP Transports Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>MTP Transports are responsible for binding the MTP protocol implementation to a specific transport bearer protocol, such as USB or PTP-IP. </p> <section><title>Architecture</title> <p>MTP Transports are implemented as ECom plug-ins loaded into the MTP framework. They interact with the MTP framework using the MTP Transport API. For more information about the MTP architecture, refer to <xref href="GUID-F1DD8800-389C-5A88-A5EB-138359EF7DC5.dita">MTP Framework Overview</xref>. </p> </section> <section><title>Components</title> <p>MTP Transports provide the following components. Each component supports a transport mode. </p> <ul><li id="GUID-F3E99BBF-6DFE-5397-8F1C-F50DD9375412"><p> <b>The MTP USB Transport</b> supports MTP over USB. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-600382A6-5F4C-5A1A-9BED-32B9753B841E"><p> <b>The PTP-IP Transport</b> supports MTP over PTP-IP which is based on TCP/IP. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>Using MTP Transports</title> <p>The MTP Framework manages MTP Transports. It loads specific transport plug-ins when an MTP client application requests MTP services. </p> <p>MTP services must be started with a transport protocol binding. An MTP client application (<xref href="GUID-0F7C98EA-168C-3662-8EB1-81AF174F6305.dita"><apiname>RMTPClient</apiname></xref>) must call the <codeph>StartTransport()</codeph> function with the UID of a transport plug-in. The MTP Framework loads the transport plug-in which sets up the connection between a host PC and a Symbian device for data transfer later on. </p> </section> </conbody></concept>