<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-9BE3DEBE-A1CE-5A2F-9746-1E6F2B5B050E" xml:lang="en"><title>Environment
and DST Changes</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This section explains the effect on alarms due to the environment and DST
changes. </p>
<section><title>Environment Changes</title> <p>An environment change typically
involves change in the system time/date, workdays or UTC offset, and due to
this, alarm's expiry time can be put in the past.</p><p>When an environment
change occurs, the Alarm Server can respond in any of the following ways:</p><ul>
<li><p>The Alarm Server queues the alarms that have been skipped. These alarms
then expire immediately and must be acknowledged by the device user.</p></li>
<li><p>The Alarm Server uses <codeph>KSkippedAlarmInstancesPubSubKey</codeph> P&amp;S
key to notify the clients about the skipped calendar alarms. This key can
be used only by the device creators.</p></li>
</ul><p>Alarm Server observes changes in the UTC offset as a locale change
since the UTC offset is set according to the localized position. It observes
this offset from the system, and on change of this offset, only the alarms
in the alarm queue that are based on the floating time undergoes changes.</p><p><b>NOTE</b>:
All alarms in the alarm queue are re-evaluated only if system time/date and
workday changes. This is applicable for all alarms irrespective of their time
formats. The workday changes are also a locale change for the system.</p></section>
<section><title>Daylight Saving Time Changes</title> <p>Daylight Saving Time
(DST) or Summer Time, is a way of utilizing more daylight by advancing the
local time by one hour during the summer. </p> <p>The clocks are adjusted
forward by one hour at the beginning of spring and are adjusted backward in
autumn. The time adjusted backward by one hour in autumn is usually referred
as Standard Time (or Winter Time). In a typical case where a one-hour shift
occurs at 02:00 local time, the clock is adjusted forward from 02:00 standard
time to 03:00 DST in spring and that day has 23 hours. Whereas in autumn,
the clock is adjusted backward from 02:00 DST to 01:00 standard time, repeating
that hour, and that day has 25 hours. </p> <p>Alarm Server observes this DST
event from the Time Zone Server using <xref href="GUID-EAB78B96-8373-3A96-AA36-43207C3FB514.dita"><apiname>KDSTChangePropertyKey</apiname></xref> P&amp;S
key. This key can be used only by the device creators. On receiving notification
of this event through the key, all alarms (based on the floating time format)
in the alarm queue are re-evaluated for their expiry time. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>