<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-F684F363-B361-5868-9195-41305428AB2D"><title>Automatic Speech Recognition Data Handling Overview </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This document provides an overview of Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) Data Handling. </p> <section><title>Purpose</title> <p>This library handles ASR recognition data. </p> <p><b>ASR Data Handling Library Details</b> </p> <p>The DLL that provides the functionality and the library to which your code must link is identified below. </p> <table id="GUID-310CE24B-F612-56E6-9A36-83B8160D6316"><tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><thead><row><entry>DLL</entry> <entry>LIB</entry> <entry>Short Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <b>speechrecognitiondata.dll</b>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <b>speechrecognitiondata.lib</b>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>These files are used for implementing ASR Data Handling. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> <section><title>Architectural Relationship</title> <p>ASR Data Handling is used by the ASR Client Utility to handle recognition matches. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-B454C08F-0531-5789-ABFA-171D3C2319D9.dita">Automatic Speech Recognition Client Utility Overview</xref>. </p> </section> <section><title>Description</title> <p>The <xref href="GUID-667D8612-22D6-3403-A8B0-509E72DF8C92.dita"><apiname>CSDClientResult</apiname></xref> class contains the results of a successful recognition match. The Grammar ID and Rule ID functions define the recognition match. The constructor returns an array of <codeph>CSDClientResult</codeph> classes. The first entry in the array is the best match. </p> </section> <section><title>Key ASR Data Handling Classes</title> <p>The speech recognition functionality provided by ASR Data Handling is contained within the following key classes: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-1DE35491-9ED7-5B8E-869B-331D9BCDCE19"><p> <xref href="GUID-667D8612-22D6-3403-A8B0-509E72DF8C92.dita"><apiname>CSDClientResult</apiname></xref> - encapsulates a client recognition result. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-AC3C262D-F5AD-5B3A-91C0-90F91E6960F3"><p> <xref href="GUID-D4E744FD-A7C0-356C-A71B-4D18306EBD19.dita"><apiname>CSDClientResultSet</apiname></xref> - encapsulates a client recogntion result set. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-36574641-AA9F-5C94-81CA-080314CE66F8"><p> <xref href="GUID-634A526E-AAFB-30CC-94E0-C087D6D7D46B.dita"><apiname>CSDRule</apiname></xref> - encapsulates a rule within a grammar. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-E32D9DE6-3350-5DD3-BD78-F4F335C6E57C"><p> <xref href="GUID-1D6884DA-0D08-3D2C-8579-E646FC366120.dita"><apiname>CSDGrammar</apiname></xref> - encapsulates a set of rules. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>Using ASR Data Handling</title> <p>Clients can use ASR Data Handling to: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-FBFB70C8-7F5E-5D56-A99B-CFAC28D7B54B"><p>Instantiate an instance of <xref href="GUID-667D8612-22D6-3403-A8B0-509E72DF8C92.dita"><apiname>CSDClientResult</apiname></xref>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-4CEDB164-F30D-561B-89BF-83EFD3ABF571"><p>Return the grammar ID. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-BA461D1C-5A89-5ED3-A3A9-2851D42B64C8"><p>Return the rule ID. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-8701C38F-2AE6-56FB-B0B8-9746E27C6608"><p>Return the number of <xref href="GUID-B110C5BE-C310-38E0-BD85-4417E2057727.dita"><apiname>CSDClientresult</apiname></xref> objects in the array. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>See Also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-B454C08F-0531-5789-ABFA-171D3C2319D9.dita"> Automatic Speech Recognition Client Utility Overview</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-DC4BF172-CDD3-5351-BBA1-550DEC1706BD.dita">Automatic Speech Recognition Custom Commands Overview</xref>  </p> </section> </conbody></concept>