<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-24D99069-438E-5CC4-90B6-5609A2E50953" xml:lang="en"><title>OpenMAX
IL Component Interface Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This document introduces you to the Symbian way of using OpenMAX IL Component
Interface. </p>
<section><title>Purpose</title> <p>OpenMAX IL Component interface is an ECom
plug-in. This plug-in is loaded by OpenMAX IL Loader to access OpenMAX IL
Component. </p> <p>The OpenMAX IL Component interface (entry point) is provided
as a static library, and the ECom implementation is defined as a macro to
allow OpenMAX IL Component to be built as an ECom plug-in with very little
overhead. </p> </section>
<section><title>API name library details</title><p>For Symbian OpenMAX IL
Component functionality you must adapt the following static library file. </p> <table id="GUID-1B5B22D0-EE9B-5B88-BB47-FF91127F45CF">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>DLL</entry>
<entry>LIB</entry>
<entry>Short Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>You must create your own <b>*.dll</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <b> omxilcomponentif.lib</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>These files are used for implementing OpenMAX IL Component interface. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section><title>Architectural relationship</title> <p>OpenMAX IL Component
interface is loaded as an ECom plug-in. <xref href="GUID-8ABC275C-E94D-3E37-A493-FCB59F26F574.dita"><apiname>KUidOmxILSymbianComponentIf</apiname></xref> is
an identifier for the OpenMAX IL Component interface. </p> </section>
<section><title>Description</title> <p>The OpenMAX IL Component interface
is implemented by using the <xref href="GUID-A209F5DF-59FC-3386-8544-3A34351BDB30.dita"><apiname>OMX_COMPONENTTYPE</apiname></xref> structure.
The valid handle for the OpenMAX IL Component interface is received by using
the <xref href="GUID-A19E1E17-0DCB-37FA-8AF1-C14B862292DF.dita"><apiname>OMX_HANDLETYPE</apiname></xref> structure. </p> <p>The <xref href="GUID-A209F5DF-59FC-3386-8544-3A34351BDB30.dita"><apiname>OMX_COMPONENTTYPE</apiname></xref> structure
is used to access the functionality of the OpenMAX IL Component interface.
The main features of the <xref href="GUID-A209F5DF-59FC-3386-8544-3A34351BDB30.dita"><apiname>OMX_COMPONENTTYPE</apiname></xref> structure are
to </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-BAEDDF62-E584-590C-B17E-AF23F2DEBA95"><p>get the version of OpenMAX
IL Component </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8E506495-800B-51E7-9D93-1FA1E31D0D8D"><p>get the role of OpenMAX
IL Component </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-74ACDA1D-589B-572D-88A9-F96691DCD772"><p>get the name of OpenMAX
IL Component. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>Key OpenMAX IL Component interface classes</title> <p>The
key classes of the OpenMAX IL Component interface are </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-28BCA546-1665-5854-A975-9D79ECB24D5F"><p> <xref href="GUID-81BE22B8-EA3A-3BA9-A4EB-A7087BB01CCE.dita"><apiname>COmxILComponentIf</apiname></xref>,
which is an interface for implementing OpenMAX IL Component interface </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-55E12AD8-8363-5314-8944-EA2AE7E5A03D"><p> <xref href="GUID-71B50971-A34B-3AA8-8697-84FED029917A.dita"><apiname>COmxILSymbianComponentIf</apiname></xref>,
which is the Symbian implementation of <xref href="GUID-81BE22B8-EA3A-3BA9-A4EB-A7087BB01CCE.dita"><apiname>COmxILComponentIf</apiname></xref>. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>Using the OpenMAX IL Component interface </title> <p>The OpenMAX
IL Component interface is used to implement the Multimedia functionality as
specified in <xref href="http://www.khronos.org/files/openmax_il_spec_1_1_1.pdf" scope="external">OpenMAX IL Specification 1.1.1</xref>. </p> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-148B1188-8007-5077-A813-50F728CAC5D5.dita"><linktext>OpenMAX IL
Core Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-F97ABEDE-C318-5EA2-B8CB-6510725413A0.dita"><linktext> OpenMAX
IL Loader Interface Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-89CFD892-16B0-5B70-AE46-D4BFB8412BC4.dita"><linktext>OpenMAX IL
Content Pipe Overview </linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>