<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-E0D10091-1F66-428A-919C-BE8C95DEACD1" xml:lang="en"><title>Paragraph
Styles</title><shortdesc>A style is a collection of format attributes which are based on
the global format layers, and are uniquely identified by a name. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>In addition, styles are characterized by an outline level, a type, and,
optionally, by a style to use for the following paragraph. The outline level
is used to determine which headings should be shown when in document outline
view mode. The type, represented by a UID, is used to differentiate between
the system-provided styles, which are built in to the word processor and cannot
be deleted, and user defined styles, which may be deleted. By default, a paragraph
style's type is initialized to <codeph>KUserDefinedParagraphStyleUid</codeph>. 
 </p>
<p>Another style type which may be encountered is <codeph>KNormalParagraphStyleUid</codeph>.
This type is used to distinguish the Normal paragraph style from all other
styles. This is necessary because the Normal paragraph style is not a <codeph>CParagraphStyle</codeph> object,
but a <codeph>CParaFormatLayer</codeph>, and represents the global
paragraph format layer upon which all styles are based.  </p>
<p>Symbian supports paragraph styles only. Character styles are not supported.
This means that a style must be applied to entire paragraphs, although both
character and paragraph format attributes may be set in the style. Paragraph
styles cannot be used in global text, and their use in rich text is optional.</p>
</conbody></concept>