<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-C6E29524-AD59-4EBB-9004-13F731FA1F3C" xml:lang="en"><title>Other
Options menus</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Certain Options menus are accessed in other ways than by using the Options
softkey. The usage of these menus is similar to the normal Options menu. Examples
of such menus are:</p>
<table id="GUID-C1DF65EC-A38D-4799-8856-9BDD810E6F82"><title>Other Options
menus</title>
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Menu</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Context sensitive Options menu</p></entry>
<entry><p>The Selection key opens this context sensitive Options menu when
there is no single intuitive function (such as opening the item in focus)
for it. The context sensitive Options menu only lists functions that: </p><ul>
<li><p>Affect only the item in focus. </p></li>
<li><p>Could be regarded as potentially intuitive. </p></li>
<li><p>Are competing for the topmost place of the menu.</p></li>
</ul><p>Other functions can be accessed through the Options softkey. The number
of items in the context sensitive Options menu is usually two or three; it
should never be more than four. As an example, in a message editor, the functions
in the context sensitive Options menu could be Send and Add recipient.</p><p>In
case there are marked items in a list, the context sensitive Options menu
should include the Mark/Unmark functions. When a list is empty, it may make
sense to offer a Create new type of option in the context sensitive Options
menu, but only when it would be an appropriate function in the context.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Editing menu</p></entry>
<entry><p>Opened by pressing the Edit key in a text editor. Contains only
editing commands. See <xref href="GUID-2E0F793F-3D80-4303-AF48-C7341F417DC9.dita">Editing
menu</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody></concept>