<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-789214C3-FAE2-5588-A662-7F0DE17F84F9" xml:lang="en"><title>High
Speed Uplink Packet Access (HSUPA) </title><shortdesc>Explains the HSUPA functionality supported by Symbian platform.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-0FFFAB4D-AEE9-4DC8-89AF-45D3EB39926E"><title>Introduction</title> <p> The HSUPA functionality is supported
by extending the <xref href="GUID-BBF6E33F-2E9C-5BB1-8404-87289EC73BFF.dita">multimode
telephony</xref> API and the <xref href="GUID-8F565241-149E-5AF7-972E-A06B6DDC1B9F.dita">packet
data telephony</xref> API. HSUPA is defined in 3GPP R6 specifications. </p> <p>HSUPA
provides users with a high speed uplink, which allows network operators to
provide more interactive value-added data services. HSUPA improves data throughput
and reduces delays by using technologies such as adaptive modulation and hybrid
ARQ. The main advantages of using HSUPA is that it does not require any hardware
modifications to existing network and phones that already supports 3G. </p> <p>Developers
who wish to use HSUPA functionality should include <filepath>etelmm.dll</filepath><i/> and <filepath>etelpckt.dll</filepath> in
their MMP files. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-161DEBEA-BEA3-453F-A3E1-FA7A68A22F3D"><title>HSUPA support by the phone</title> <p>The following steps
enables the client applications to find out if the phone supports HSUPA or
not: </p> <ol id="GUID-16130593-BA39-5175-A704-3A69EA368D96">
<li id="GUID-7DDE5784-E775-5201-81E3-07E9E3E1FBBB"><p>Create an instance of <xref href="GUID-AA81AFA4-6FAC-3B0D-A082-BE0AEC58CCA8.dita"><apiname>RMobilePhone</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8C88E45D-A211-56B5-8EE0-B4B68D309A29"><p>Open a new <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-32D7D26E-02FA-5726-A6F4-E2E50936322E"><p>Call <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita#GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0/GUID-FC6E5234-A805-3EB1-95C1-0FC016C30FD3"><apiname>RPacketService::GetStaticCaps()</apiname></xref> to
find out if HSUPA is supported by the phone </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-56A3DD52-1CFA-560F-A321-3E7F94C1333B"><p>The function returns
with information regarding the support for 3G network service, HSUPA and HSDPA </p> </li>
</ol> </section>
<section id="GUID-7D64C77D-90C2-4B84-BEB2-3F6363D53912"><title>HSUPA support by the network</title><p><b>Home network support </b> </p> <p>Clients
can verify if the home network supports HSUPA by calling <xref href="GUID-AA81AFA4-6FAC-3B0D-A082-BE0AEC58CCA8.dita#GUID-AA81AFA4-6FAC-3B0D-A082-BE0AEC58CCA8/GUID-959520A3-6AD8-3E28-BD09-FE718A6C7C32"><apiname>RMobilePhone::GetHomeNetwork()</apiname></xref>.
The function returns the network support details in a <xref href="GUID-B4B45692-9810-3AFF-829B-117EDEE28D75.dita"><apiname>TMobilePhoneNetworkInfoV8</apiname></xref> object. </p> <p><b>Current
network support </b> </p> <p>Clients can verify if the current network supports
HSUPA by calling <xref href="GUID-AA81AFA4-6FAC-3B0D-A082-BE0AEC58CCA8.dita#GUID-AA81AFA4-6FAC-3B0D-A082-BE0AEC58CCA8/GUID-8A2F43F8-4C7C-35C8-8629-11516750EFFA"><apiname>RMobilePhone::GetCurrentNetwork()</apiname></xref>. The
network support details are returned in a <xref href="GUID-B4B45692-9810-3AFF-829B-117EDEE28D75.dita"><apiname>TMobilePhoneNetworkInfoV8</apiname></xref> object.
Clients can be notified of the changes to the current network by <xref href="GUID-AA81AFA4-6FAC-3B0D-A082-BE0AEC58CCA8.dita#GUID-AA81AFA4-6FAC-3B0D-A082-BE0AEC58CCA8/GUID-EB048AFA-2794-3F68-B9D8-31E4FBA961BA"><apiname>RMobilePhone::NotifyCurrentNetworkChange()</apiname></xref>.
The change details are returned in a <xref href="GUID-B4B45692-9810-3AFF-829B-117EDEE28D75.dita"><apiname>TMobilePhoneNetworkInfoV8</apiname></xref> object. </p> <p><b>HSUPA
support by detected networks </b> </p> <p>Clients can verify if HSUPA is supported
by other detected networks by calling <xref href="GUID-D2533ED5-4659-3CC5-954E-9F5F34DF12C4.dita#GUID-D2533ED5-4659-3CC5-954E-9F5F34DF12C4/GUID-E86961F7-5193-3EDB-A1FE-2200244F8EE4"><apiname>CRetrieveMobilePhoneDetectedNetworks::StartV8()</apiname></xref>.
This is a two-phase retrieval process. After calling the <xref href="GUID-D2533ED5-4659-3CC5-954E-9F5F34DF12C4.dita#GUID-D2533ED5-4659-3CC5-954E-9F5F34DF12C4/GUID-E86961F7-5193-3EDB-A1FE-2200244F8EE4"><apiname>CRetrieveMobilePhoneDetectedNetworks::StartV8()</apiname></xref>,
clients should call <xref href="GUID-1862DE39-6183-361E-AA61-7B1586EF0B1F.dita"><apiname>CMobilePhoneNetworkListV8</apiname></xref> * <xref href="GUID-D2533ED5-4659-3CC5-954E-9F5F34DF12C4.dita#GUID-D2533ED5-4659-3CC5-954E-9F5F34DF12C4/GUID-BC55210E-B636-3CDA-8A19-2FC79E5E1F26"><apiname>CRetrieveMobilePhoneDetectedNetworks::RetrieveListV8L()</apiname></xref>.
The network capabilities are returned in a <xref href="GUID-60B8BD21-A9FE-3DB1-ABEC-78AA8F9594F3.dita"><apiname>TMobilePhoneNetworkInfo</apiname></xref> object. </p> <p><b>Querying
the HSUPA connection state</b> </p> <p>When clients have verified HSUPA support
by the phone, they can query the state of a HSUPA connection by calling <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita#GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0/GUID-6E1B6088-3196-31DC-B1CD-11813FE6F68C"><apiname>RPacketService::GetDynamicCaps()</apiname></xref>. </p> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-BBF6E33F-2E9C-5BB1-8404-87289EC73BFF.dita"><linktext>Multimode
Telephony</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-8F565241-149E-5AF7-972E-A06B6DDC1B9F.dita"><linktext>Packet Data
Telephony</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>