<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-264734DA-3D49-596B-A48A-B6F0D5B9143A" xml:lang="en"><title>Domain
Management Policy Tutorial</title><shortdesc>This section describes the steps for a domain management policy
component to use the Domain Manager. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Domain management policy code interfaces with the domain
manager through the <xref href="GUID-C1C17273-1C4A-35D5-A564-F7FC81EDFB7B.dita"><apiname>RDmDomainManager</apiname></xref> class, which, in effect,
controls the domain manager. Only one instance of this class can be connected
to the domain manager at any one time. </p>
<p>Once connected through a call to <codeph>Connect()</codeph>, domain management
policy can trigger power state transitions for specific domains and for the
system: </p>
<ul>
<li id="GUID-70196493-DD87-51E1-BFAA-E1525B9BAADF"><p>it calls <codeph>SystemShutDown()</codeph> to
trigger a system transition to the <i>Off</i> state. The call to this function
never returns; the device powers down, and the system must then be re-booted. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DEF8B683-32AB-5207-8879-D91BC68E69CD"><p>it calls <codeph>RequestSystemTransition()</codeph> to
trigger a system transition to the specified target power state. The target
state can be <i>Standby</i> or <i>Off</i>. The implementation sends an asynchronous
request to the domain manager. The request only completes when a wake-up event
occurs triggering the system back into the <i>Active</i> state. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7603C5C5-054C-54AD-814D-4FDAB6988BFF"><p>it calls <codeph>RequestDomainTransition()</codeph> to
trigger a transition of the specified domain to the specified target power
state. The target power state can be <i>Active</i>, <i>Standby</i> or <i>Off</i>.
The implementation sends an asynchronous request to the domain manager. The
request completes when the domain reaches the target state. </p> </li>
</ul>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-1197F032-1B73-58E1-8B45-E5D58B9DF788.dita"><linktext>Domain  
              Management Policy DLL</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>