<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-7BDC5FC0-15AD-56D3-BB64-C35F0C34A31F" xml:lang="en"><title>User
Prompt Dialog Tutorial </title><shortdesc>This task describes how to create dialog boxes to prompt the user
when the un-signed applications require network access. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context>The dialog creator creates the prompt with a set of response options
for the user and streams it to the notifier. The notifier is used by the user
 interface to display the available options to be selected by the user. When
an  option is selected, the response is returned to the dialog creator by
the notifier. The dialog creator processes the notifier response. The notifier
framework is implemented by the UI creators. A reference  dialog creator is
located at <filepath>\release\&lt;target&gt;\urel\lilpupsdialog.dll</filepath>.
The reference dialog creator can be used as a reference and customised by
the licensees.</context>
<steps id="GUID-7E1F10F0-A040-416F-996F-91A641E42415">
<step id="GUID-769CFA7D-A974-4328-B07D-C5FA32903AB0"><cmd> Call &lt;api-item&gt;CDialogCreator::PrepareDialog()&lt;/api-item&gt;
to create the prompt for the notifier. </cmd>
<info><codeblock xml:space="preserve">void PrepareDialog(CPromptRequest&amp; aRequest,CPolicy&amp; aPolicy, RPointerArray&amp; aFingerprints, CClientEntity* aClientEntity, TAny* aEvalPrivateData, TRequestStatus&amp; aStatus);</codeblock></info>
<stepresult><codeph>CDialogCreator::PrepareDialog()</codeph> formats the data
to be sent to the notifier using <codeph>CDialogCreator::DisplayDialog()</codeph> method.<p><codeblock xml:space="preserve"> void DisplayDialog(CPolicy::TOptions&amp; aOptions, CFingerprint*&amp; aFingerprint, TUint&amp; aEvaluatorInfo, TRequestStatus&amp; aStatus);</codeblock></p></stepresult>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody></task>