<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-FF8F5D97-7D37-5F6B-84A3-C064E2FD53E0" xml:lang="en"><title>System
Static Functions Overview</title><shortdesc>This document provides an overview of the system static functions.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-1597A42C-DD82-4BF1-9F26-DCF9F220C44A"><title>Purpose</title> <p>Provided miscellaneous system functions. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-B0C9B715-3B52-4293-82DD-ABE524EC1CE1"><title>Description</title> <p>The System Static Functions, provided
by the <xref href="GUID-C197C9A7-EA05-3F24-9854-542E984C612D.dita"><apiname>User</apiname></xref> class, typically either relate to the current
thread, or its heap, or system-wide properties, such as system time. </p> <p>The
API is divided into the following areas: </p> <p><b>Address
information </b> </p> <p>Checks if an address is within the ROM. </p> <p><b>Algorithms </b> </p> <p>Algorithms for searching and sorting. </p> <p><b>Asynchronous service support </b> </p> <p>Signalling and waiting on thread
request semaphores. See also <xref href="GUID-1294F540-FDA7-5050-BAFB-3C9888491B98.dita">Asynchronous
Services Overview</xref>. </p> <p><b>Beep</b> </p> <p>Make a beep tone. </p> <p><b>Cleanup
support </b> </p> <p>Raising leaves and setting traps. See also <xref href="GUID-E5A83EF3-948B-5729-A2CD-3644E803520B.dita">Cleanup
Support Overview</xref>. </p> <p><b>CObject
name validation </b> </p> <p>Check that name is a valid <codeph>CObject</codeph> name.
See also <xref href="GUID-BE0C94BE-94F0-54B3-8674-366C09261E5D.dita">Reference
Counting Objects Overview</xref>. </p> <p><b>C-style
string length </b> </p> <p>A string length function for C-style strings. See
also <xref href="GUID-0817AD1D-58CF-5108-ACBF-26DFD4BA395E.dita">Descriptors Overview</xref>. </p> <p><b>Debugging support </b> </p> <p>Enable or disable just-in-time debugging. </p> <p><b>Device management </b> </p> <p>Loading and unloading physical and logical
device drivers. </p> <p><b>Execution
control </b> </p> <p>Force thread termination and panics and respond to these
events. See also <xref href="GUID-547CF71C-6A62-57C0-A9BE-E76B4286C6D6.dita">Threads
And Processes Overview</xref>. </p> <p><b>Heap
debugging support </b> </p> <p>Relative to the current thread's heap; they
support debugging of memory leaks. See also <xref href="GUID-6D8460DF-8B0F-5249-B236-92ABE0E67A14.dita">Memory
Allocation Overview</xref>. </p> <p><b>Language-dependent
character functions </b> </p> <p>Folding, collating, and case conversion functions
for strings, dependent on the language of the current locale. See also <xref href="GUID-0817AD1D-58CF-5108-ACBF-26DFD4BA395E.dita">Descriptors Overview</xref>. </p> <p><b>Locked incrementer and decrementer </b> </p> <p>Atomic increment and decrement
operations. </p> <p><b>Notification
service </b> </p> <p>Display a text message on the screen for a short time.
See also <xref href="GUID-24508C2D-31B9-5CC2-9EB8-F00AD39D8AA0.dita">Notification
Services Overview</xref>. </p> <p><b>Set
time </b> </p> <p>Set secure system time and the non-secure system time. See
also <xref href="GUID-CD506806-FC59-547A-B5CD-03314DF847F7.dita">Date And Time
Handling Overview</xref>. </p> <p><b>Synchronous
timer services </b> </p> <p>Suspend current thread for relative or absolute
time. See also <xref href="GUID-27F345DA-7969-5B3B-B2BD-285CD168CF72.dita">Timers
And Timing Services Overview</xref>. </p> <p><b>System
wide locale </b> </p> <p>Set the system wide currency symbol. See also <xref href="GUID-92C032CF-9291-5970-9152-EFF47C9AE3B9.dita">Locale Settings Overview</xref>. </p> <p><b>Tick count</b> </p> <p>Machine's current tick count. </p> <p><b>User heap management </b> </p> <p>Heap manipulation functions for the
current thread's heap. See also <xref href="GUID-6D8460DF-8B0F-5249-B236-92ABE0E67A14.dita">Memory
Allocation Overview</xref>. </p> <p><b>Version
information and comparisons </b> </p> <p>Functions to compare two versions
and to get the version of the operating system. See also <xref href="GUID-C61A6E8E-F295-53B4-ACC6-CFE1D9117895.dita">Version
Handling Overview</xref>. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>