<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-3E85C075-436F-5D2E-B1F7-0C9EC6D382E3" xml:lang="en"><title>Source
Code Organisation</title><shortdesc>Describes the platform-independent files of the bootstrap.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The generic files are stored in the <filepath>os/kernelhwsrv/kernel/eka/</filepath> directory. </p>
<p>The files are: </p>
<ul>
<li id="GUID-BC07386A-D4FA-5F27-8289-DBA4E7BDD5DE"><p> <filepath>kernel/bootstrap.mke</filepath> -
Generic part of the makefile, written for GNU make. Works for both ARM and
X86 bootstrap builds. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2DDE2253-4CD6-5AB9-97DD-CF513B14515E"><p> <filepath>include/e32rom.h</filepath> -
C++ Header file describing the layout of the ROM header and the ROM file system. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7E8A26BC-7E4F-57A2-92D3-890F26CF1C64"><p> <filepath>include/kernel/kernboot.h</filepath> -
C++ Header file describing the interface between the bootstrap and the kernel,
mainly the definition of super page fields. Applicable to both ARM and X86. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7C536059-863A-5C1E-BFEC-0FF9570EAB4F"><p> <filepath>include/kernel/arm/bootcpu.inc</filepath> -
Assembler include file giving CPU-specific definitions for ARM. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-FA30F09E-1A88-5C8F-A5BD-FF99E241EE25"><p> <filepath>include/kernel/arm/bootdefs.h</filepath> -
C++ Header file containing some internal bootstrap definitions for ARM. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F6C696D8-1860-56C1-A7EA-54CBAC959406"><p> <filepath>include/kernel/arm/bootmacro.inc</filepath> -
Assembler include file containing some general-purpose macro definitions for
ARM.</p> </li>
<li id="GUID-137AC684-7714-5193-8747-F9A9614694B6"><p> <filepath>include/kernel/arm/bootstrap.lnk</filepath> -
Linker script file for GNU linker; used when building ARM bootstrap using
GNU tools. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8E04B961-8B1A-546F-9EC5-B5CC1C90AC00"><p> <filepath>include/memmodel/epoc/&lt;model&gt;/arm/mmboot.h</filepath> -
C++ Header file containing memory-model-specific definitions shared with bootstrap. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-255BDD64-F619-53B4-97AE-83EB1431CD1E"><p> <filepath>kernel/arm/bootcpu.s</filepath> -
Source file containing routines which are specific to a particular ARM CPU
rather than generic to all ARM CPUs.</p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2C9EABF7-3C0E-526A-97A4-18EC69FEC45D"><p> <filepath>kernel/arm/bootutils.s</filepath> -
Source file containing lots of useful subroutines such as memory copy, memory
fill, generic MMU mapping code, generic memory allocator, and so on.</p> </li>
<li id="GUID-E1250D93-DE7D-568D-8D35-F07221E50F62"><p> <filepath>kernel/arm/bootmain.s</filepath> -
Source file containing top-level bootstrap code. </p> </li>
</ul>
</conbody></concept>