<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-08304A3F-4331-5936-984E-74A1F35905B8"><title>Media Client Image Library Overview </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This document introduces you to the Media Client Image library functionality. </p> <section id="GUID-6CA7B577-8C33-589B-BB37-1D26C97A5E6B"><title>Purpose</title> <p>Media Client Image is an interface to set image conversion utility functions. This interface is also used for the bitmap image rotation and the bitmap image re-scaling operations. </p> <p><b>Media Client Image Library Details</b> </p> <p>The DLL that provides the functionality and the library to which your code must link is identified below. </p> <table id="GUID-349F7833-B969-5B36-91E3-4ACB2DFD9D8F"><tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><thead><row><entry>DLL</entry> <entry>LIB</entry> <entry>Short Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <xref href="GUID-9DD75050-328B-36BD-9840-E4F228415686.dita"><apiname>mediaclientimage.dll</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <xref href="GUID-1B95D366-6E86-37FB-8373-EE671F64A17A.dita"><apiname>mediaclientimage.lib </apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>These files are used for implementing Media Client Image operation. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> <section><title>Architectural Relationship</title> <p>Media Client Image is a mixin functionality and it is intended to be inherited by the client function which observe the image conversion operations. </p> </section> <section><title>Description</title> <p>Media Client Image functionality is invoked when you want to construct image conversion utility, image rotation and image re-scaling operations. </p> </section> <section><title>Key Media Client Image Classes</title> <p>The key classes are: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-3F17A10E-6256-58E8-B692-AEC68B2CB72B"><p> <xref href="GUID-9082F8F8-AC9C-397E-9D41-07C6191D0F32.dita"><apiname>CMdaImageUtility</apiname></xref> This class provides an interface to perform the image conversion operation. In the image conversion operation for decoding <xref href="GUID-5ED4AA23-0FB7-3738-9564-1861FB8E17B0.dita"><apiname>CMdaImageDataReadUtility</apiname></xref> is used and for encoding <xref href="GUID-149BA9EE-F7C2-3073-8B9C-2B08382A9730.dita"><apiname>CMdaImageDataWriteUtility</apiname></xref> is used. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-9C4626D3-95DA-5F5D-A681-874D8244E650"><p> <xref href="GUID-0A899D09-5AB0-3115-AD71-9E3318B1A00E.dita"><apiname>CMdaBitmapRotator</apiname></xref> Provides rotation for the bitmap image in clockwise direction by 90 degree increments. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-9863BC2A-C205-586A-8146-CE8DBBC29C33"><p> <xref href="GUID-63EE95C6-C15C-3383-B303-72E8DB765EB3.dita"><apiname>CMdaBitmapScaler</apiname></xref> Provides re-scaling for the bitmap image. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>Using Media Client Image</title> <p>The Media Client Image functionality is used for the following: </p> </section> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-88091838-03FC-550F-9A3D-DA70907EF955.dita"><linktext>Imaging Frameworks Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-3D9C4B45-EEA0-581C-A9E5-8B2535014930.dita"><linktext>Image Conversion Library Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-6914EA3D-6FAB-52DD-A159-990F4ED892A2.dita"><linktext>Image Transform Library
                Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-27220B08-B2E7-5106-9BCC-C86938D3E37D.dita"><linktext>Image Display Library Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-C0B39D73-0A3C-5289-A774-7BE590037404.dita"><linktext>Bitmap Transform Library
                Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-257E223F-1612-5978-982A-38DE8E08211C.dita"><linktext> Gifscaler Library Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-6DC34798-86CE-537D-B3B8-9A94FF77B283.dita"><linktext>Image Encoding Tutorial</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-B10B048F-37FF-53E7-92B9-83F8C197566A.dita"><linktext>Image Decoding Tutorial</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>