<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-057DEAFE-FAC5-5DB7-8FFB-2E6B49E4F6C5" xml:lang="en"><title>Hardware
Resource Manager Policy Files</title><abstract><shortdesc>HWRM policy files define the priority for reserving Lights
and Vibra resources. Clients having higher priority preempts the reservation
of the resource of lower priority client. Policy files are optional. </shortdesc> <p>There
are four types of policy files. Two of the policy files define the device
creator-specific (handset manufacturer) customization and other two define
device-specific customizations. The device-specific policy files have higher
priority over the device creator-specific files. </p> </abstract><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section><title>Location of the policy files</title> <p>All policy files must
be stored on the ROM drive (Z drive) in HWRM server’s private directory: <codeph>Z:\private\101f7a02\</codeph>  </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-7B65E436-984B-574E-B0A5-07C488A45AA2"><p> <b>Device-specific
vibra policy file</b>: <codeph>ProductHWRMVibraPolicy.INI </codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-22EDEC97-5482-5F2F-9FDA-51D60C878998"><p> <b>Device-specific
lights policy file</b>: <codeph>ProductHWRMLightsPolicy.INI</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-E58924EB-0DEC-574A-9A60-77B734280842"><p> <b>Device Creator-specific
vibra policy file</b>: <codeph>CustomerHWRMVibraPolicy.INI</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-82B8A587-F603-5D37-A337-838B62E1761C"><p> <b>Device Creator-specific
lights policy file</b>: <codeph>CustomerHWRMLightsPolicy.INI</codeph>  </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>Sample policy file</title> <p>The format of a policy file
is an ASCII text file. </p><codeblock id="GUID-0216FB4A-2E76-5679-92E7-B1CC4DD3454A" xml:space="preserve">
#sample policy file

Priority    SID         AppName
1           0x12345678  ReallyHigh.exe
100         0x100058F3  SysAp.exe
150         0xffffffff  MidiEngine.exe
500         ALL
990         0x87654321  ReallyLow.exe
42          0x33442255  HWRMTests.exe
</codeblock> <p> <b>Note</b>: This is only a sample policy file and does not
contain valid SIDs. </p> <p>Each line of the file is parsed and a line is
considered valid data if it contains the following elements: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-D8A5E2B2-C852-5C87-A204-CA4E708BECE9"><p> <b>Priority</b>: An
integer value between 1 (highest priority) to 1000 (lowest priority) can be
used. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0B63F8E5-6618-51A6-9DEE-647875F1B195"><p> <b>SID</b> (Secure
ID): An hexadecimal value to identify specific clients or '<codeph>ALL</codeph>'
to specify all clients. Value of the SID must be a valid 8 digit hexadecimal
number preceded by 0x. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-81072B46-B1E2-5C69-85B4-D78FA0DE31A8"><p> <b>Appname</b>: An
optional string to specify the client application name. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
</conbody></concept>