<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-9C57F0C6-E2E3-58A2-907D-924A7E22EA97-GENID-1-15-1-1-5-1-4-1" xml:lang="en"><title>Resource
compiler tool: rcomp</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-9C57F0C6-E2E3-58A2-907D-924A7E22EA97-GENID-1-15-1-1-5-1-4-1-2-1"><title>Purpose</title> <p>The
resource compiler, <filepath>rcomp</filepath>, compiles source <filepath>rss</filepath> resource
files into a <filepath>rsc</filepath> resource data file which can be used
by applications, and a <filepath>rsg</filepath> resource header file. The
operation of the resource compiler is usually wrapped in an <filepath>abld</filepath> batch
file. That provides the most commonly used <filepath>rcomp</filepath> functionality,
but does not provide some of the debugging options available directly through <filepath>rcomp</filepath>. </p><p><b>Note</b>:
From Symbian^4 onwards, <filepath>rcomp</filepath> supports long strings and
supplementary characters (not included in code point range of BMP) of the
range <codeph>0x10000</codeph> to <codeph>0x10ffff</codeph> in rss files.</p> </section>
<section id="GUID-C8BD2B09-0D01-4CE3-B575-0A076F1E926D"><title>Command line syntax</title><userinput>rcomp [—v] [—p] [—l]
[—force] [—u] [—o <varname>DataOutputFile</varname>] [-{<varname>uid2</varname>,<varname>uid3</varname> }]
[—h <varname>HeaderOutputFile</varname>] [—s <varname>SourceFileName</varname>]
[—i <varname>BaseInputFileName</varname>]</userinput> <p><b>Arguments</b> </p> <table id="GUID-787D72D2-564C-569A-B7C4-B244DD46C87E">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-v</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>verbose output. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-p</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>parser debugging </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-l</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Check localisation comments </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-force</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Emit warnings if the localisation comment tags are not present </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-u</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>generate Unicode resource binary </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-o</codeph>  <varname>DataOutputFile</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specify full path and name for data output file <varname>DataOutputFile</varname>.
If this is not specified, no data output file is created. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>[-{<varname>uid2</varname>,<varname>uid3</varname> }] </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Second and third UIDs for the resource file </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-h</codeph>  <varname>HeaderOutputFile</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specify header output file <varname>HeaderOutputFile</varname>;
this is the name only, and does not include the path. If this is not specified,
no header output file is created. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-s</codeph>  <varname>SourceFileName</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specify resource compiler source file <varname>SourceFileName</varname> (output
of pre-processor <varname>BaseInputFileName</varname>.rpp). If not specified,
or specified as <codeph>-s-</codeph>, source is read from the standard input. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-i</codeph>  <varname>BaseInputFileName</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The file given to the pre-processor </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p><b>Output files</b> </p> <table id="GUID-2CF9D84F-B657-56FF-8AB3-DF14CE693ED5">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>DataOutputFile</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The resource data referred to by the application at run-time. Note
that the generated file can have any name. However, before the resource file
can be used it must be renamed to have an extension <filepath>.rsc</filepath>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>HeaderOutputFile</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The generated header file, which contains <codeph>#define</codeph> statements
for each resource defined in the source file. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
</conbody></concept>