<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-83E4F989-0B73-5E83-8547-AB3070492CBF" xml:lang="en"><title>What
is the Comms Database?</title><shortdesc>The Comms Database contains the information necessary to configure
components in the comms stack. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context id="GUID-CA4E76D5-2505-48F7-A205-BA42A93FD92B"><p>The Comms Database has a set of parameters used to configure communications
on Symbian platform. The information stored in the Comms Database
is used to configure components in the comms stack. Information such as connection
preferences, account settings and some of the linkage between components can
be set in the comms stack. The configuration data is stored in records in
database tables. The data also has data schema to define the tables. For more
information and a full list of the settings in the Comms Database, see the <xref href="GUID-58089281-9DD0-502D-8DFD-831E7BAA931E.dita">Reference</xref></p><p>The
Comms Database is configured in one of the following ways: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-3CFE8D23-F087-54D1-A6F3-83EDD0510609"><p>It is compiled from
a definition file into a binary file to ship in the ROM of a device. For more
information about how to compile the default version of the database see <xref href="GUID-00696F18-F1C8-5810-A9F9-E7215CA451A4.dita">Configuring comms database
using CED and CEDDUMP</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9FACDEE5-5DD7-5118-9C50-84857A379083"><p>It is modified from
the original ROM version via runtime changes made through the Comms Database
(CommsDat) API. For more information about the CommsDat API, see the <xref href="GUID-A19A1F43-E42B-5FC2-AE58-A7BC67B6733A.dita">Migrating from CommDb to
the CommsDat API</xref>. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>For more information about the Comms Database, see <xref href="GUID-BD971173-E009-58DA-AF9C-F4AAFF77B138.dita">Comms
Database</xref>. </p> </context>
</taskbody></task>