<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-8A3A7CD9-A181-5D25-B583-0EA1CD59AFA2" xml:lang="en"><title>Multimedia
Proactive Command Tutorial</title><shortdesc>This tutorial describes how to use the multimedia proactive commads. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context><p>The SAT engine requests the TSY for the proactive commands. The
TSY notifies the SAT engine when it recieves the requested proactive commands
from the applications in the ICC. This tutorial describes the different proactive
commands related to multimedia functions and how to use them.  </p></context>


<steps-unordered>
<step id="GUID-5EDC92ED-80B9-5C8F-834C-25BCF03A1D24"><cmd>Use <xref href="GUID-10B2C9F7-ABBF-33E8-8B89-6D170E21293C.dita"><apiname>NotifySubmitMultimediaMsgPCmd()</apiname></xref> to
request the TSY to send a multimedia message to the network. </cmd>

<info>The message is stored in the ICC. The TSY completes the request when
it receives a submit multimedia message proactive command from the ICC. The
proactive command information is sent to the SAT enginein a <xref href="GUID-10B2C9F7-ABBF-33E8-8B89-6D170E21293C.dita"><apiname>TSubmitMultimediaMessageV6</apiname></xref> object
and a terminal response is sent to the ICC. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-D2F83CBA-A825-57B1-890A-747404F6C776"><cmd>Use <xref href="GUID-10B2C9F7-ABBF-33E8-8B89-6D170E21293C.dita"><apiname>NotifyDisplayMultimediaMsgPCmd()</apiname></xref> to
request the TSY to display a multimedia message to the user. </cmd>

<info>The TSY completes the request when it receives a display multimedia
message proactive command from the ICC. The proactive command information
is sent to the SAT engine in a <xref href="GUID-10B2C9F7-ABBF-33E8-8B89-6D170E21293C.dita"><apiname>TDisplayMultimediaMessageV6</apiname></xref> object
and a terminal response is sent to the ICC. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-20C4477D-4CFB-5FB6-93F4-31074DC17BF5"><cmd>Use <xref href="GUID-10B2C9F7-ABBF-33E8-8B89-6D170E21293C.dita"><apiname>NotifyRetrieveMultimediaMsgPCmd()</apiname></xref> to
request the TSY to retrieve a multimedia message from the network. </cmd>

<info>The TSY completes the request when it receives a retrieve multimedia
message proactive command from the ICC. The proactive command information
is sent to the SAT engine in a <xref href="GUID-10B2C9F7-ABBF-33E8-8B89-6D170E21293C.dita"><apiname>TRetrieveMultimediaMessageV6</apiname></xref> object
and a terminal response is sent to the ICC. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-07B814D1-6112-5830-86CF-1539EE238CCD"><cmd>Use <xref href="GUID-10B2C9F7-ABBF-33E8-8B89-6D170E21293C.dita"><apiname>NotifySetFramesPCmd()</apiname></xref> to
request the TSY to set the multimedia frames. </cmd>

<info>The TSY completes the request when it receives a set frame  proactive
command from the ICC. The frames can be used to split the screen and display
multiple messages or images simultaneously. The proactive command information
is sent to the SAT enginein a <xref href="GUID-10B2C9F7-ABBF-33E8-8B89-6D170E21293C.dita"><apiname>TSetFramesV6</apiname></xref> object
and a terminal response is sent to the ICC. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-8AADA5B2-688B-55BD-93A5-EA49569E2BA5"><cmd>Use <xref href="GUID-10B2C9F7-ABBF-33E8-8B89-6D170E21293C.dita"><apiname>NotifyGetFramesStatusPCmd()</apiname></xref> to
request the TSY to get the frame parameters. </cmd>

<info>The TSY completes the request when it receives a get frame status  proactive
command from the ICC. The proactive command information is sent to the SAT
enginein a <xref href="GUID-10B2C9F7-ABBF-33E8-8B89-6D170E21293C.dita"><apiname>TGetFramesStatusV6</apiname></xref> object and
a terminal response is sent to the ICC. </info>
</step>
</steps-unordered>
</taskbody></task>