<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-6CE68645-D8C5-52E1-88B3-76AEFB80DE51" xml:lang="en"><title>Peripherals
As Power Resources</title><shortdesc>Peripherals that provide services to other peripherals can be considered
as power resources from the point of view of the client driver.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>As they can offer a service to more than one other peripheral, we suggest
that the driver that manages them presents a <xref href="GUID-10105403-AF16-3908-AE9E-96CF2A03AD3A.dita"><apiname>MPowerInput</apiname></xref> derived
interface to client peripheral drivers, providing <codeph>Use()</codeph> and <codeph>Release()</codeph> functions
that can be used by dependent peripheral drivers to issue power requests.
The driver for the peripheral providing that interface may then use the built-in
usage counting feature to control the peripheral power state. </p>
<p>A typical example of a shared Peripheral is an Inter-Component serial Bus
(I2C, SPI, etc): </p>
<codeblock id="GUID-2E454D22-496D-5D9C-9F67-281D6F340459" xml:space="preserve">class MySharedPeripheral : public MPowerInput , (other parent classes)
    {
public:    
    // from MPowerInput
    void Use();
    void Release();
    TUint GetCount();
    ...
    (other methods and data members required to model the interface)
    };
      </codeblock>
<p>Special care must be taken to not create circular dependencies, for example,
Peripheral A depends on Peripheral B, which depends on Peripheral C which
depends on Peripheral A. Such circular dependencies would cause the <xref href="GUID-10105403-AF16-3908-AE9E-96CF2A03AD3A.dita#GUID-10105403-AF16-3908-AE9E-96CF2A03AD3A/GUID-606ECD77-A5F7-3408-9B63-C68C0A7B73C6"><apiname>MPowerInput::Release()</apiname></xref> mechanism
not to work properly, and preventing the chain of peripherals from powering
down when due. </p>
<p>The shared peripheral driver’s power handler asynchronous <codeph>PowerDown()</codeph> must
examine the usage count of that peripheral if the power manager issues a <codeph>PowerDown()</codeph> request
to the shared peripheral driver’s power handler while the peripheral is still
in use by another driver. In this situation, the shared peripheral driver
must defer powering down until all the dependent peripherals have released
their request on it. </p>
<p>Some peripherals may also be represented as power resources to prevent
the base port power saving operations inhibiting their usage. For example,
a base port may consider DRAM to be a shared power resource with the DMA controller,
or the DSP controller as clients. This will allow them to still be able to
access DRAM whilst the CPU is idling, thus stopping the DRAM going into self-refresh
if either one of its clients has pending operations on it. </p>
<p>As another example, to save power some base ports might decide to reduce
the refresh rate of the LCD whilst the CPU is idling or even power it down
for short periods and rely on the persistence of the LCD to prevent degredation
of the user experience. However, on a multiple core solution the LCD might
be used by the second core (e.g. DSP), for example, for playing back video
whilst the main CPU is idling. In this situation the LCD should be represented
as a shared power resource and the DSP must be able to request usage of this
resource. The DSP controller software could assert a request on the LCD preventing
the main CPU from initiating the power saving measures. </p>
</conbody></concept>