<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-6B9041F7-79A6-5CCA-9B4D-B8EF377FD378-GENID-1-12-1-17-1-1-8-1-1-9-1-7-1-5-1-7-1" xml:lang="en"><title>Building
ROM Tutorial </title><shortdesc>Describes how to build a ROM that will use demand paging. It assumes
that the configuration files have been suitably modified. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context id="GUID-0EF40712-F6BE-516A-871E-5E98BA86F3BF"><p>This is the final
step required to build a ROM that can use Writable Data Paging (WDP). The
previous steps required to produce a ROM image that can use Writable Data
Paging (WDP) are: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-E4AB8E69-E18D-522A-8CD1-CF0CFBA0E387"><p><xref href="GUID-16423056-C435-5C4D-BE3D-4A15F95F7F68.dita">Configuration
Tutorial</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-53279F00-E850-53C7-BD67-054B80747697"><p><xref href="GUID-4862EA2E-6BFE-5E11-B527-7EBA94BB0EA2.dita">oby
tutorial</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-EB986AF2-E4F8-5C22-B303-17F434ACDBB0"><p><xref href="GUID-16423056-C435-5C4D-BE3D-4A15F95F7F68.dita#GUID-16423056-C435-5C4D-BE3D-4A15F95F7F68/GUID-9A892A74-0823-57D7-A146-BC8E14508B99">mmp tutorial</xref>  </p> </li>
</ul> <p> <note> It is assumed that the both the configuration files and the
media drivers have been modified to use demand paging.</note>  </p> </context>
<steps id="GUID-95FD1C29-408C-55FE-A9D0-30D2CED91C65">
<step id="GUID-5C1EB773-0F2F-59CC-9B6C-3836C3D8CC4C"><cmd/>
<info>If the new OBY file appears before <filepath>base.iby</filepath>, then
no change to the configuration of the rombuild command is needed. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-29B770D9-9823-518A-A6F9-980FC134AE16"><cmd/>
<info>If the new OBY file appears after <filepath>base.iby</filepath>, then <codeph>USE_DATA_PAGING</codeph> must
be defined on the command line (along with <codeph>PAGED_ROM, USE_CODE_PAGING
and CODE_PAGING_FROM_ROFS</codeph>) </info>
<info> <codeph>USE_DATA_PAGING, PAGED_ROM, USE_CODE_PAGING and CODE_PAGING_FROM_ROFS</codeph> are
macros that are used to indicate which types of paging is to be used. If they
are specified in the parameter list for buildrom (with -D in fount of it)
then that type of paging will be implemented. </info>
</step>
</steps>
<result id="GUID-619040F2-098F-5A57-840B-78B1BD223E3B"><p>Executing the buildrom
command builds the ROM image with no errors or warnings. </p> </result>
<example id="GUID-E065C47A-B95B-579D-A64F-1ADADF2430A1"><title>buildrom example</title> <p>An
example of a buildrom command that produces a demand paging ROM is: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-05DF5C47-B13F-5054-826B-88D50E6CC991" xml:space="preserve">buildrom –D_NAND2 -DWITH_FLEXIBLE_MM –DPAGED_ROM –DUSE_CODE_PAGING –DCODE_PAGING_FROM_ROFS –DUSE_DATA_PAGING h4hrp techview MyDPConfig</codeblock> </example>
</taskbody></task>