<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-2999C8D1-5C95-5474-BB02-11182CC3A407"><title>Files and clipboard</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>The text content model is fully integrated with the stream store. Editable, plain, global and rich text may be stored and restored. Formatting and content use different streams, which makes it relatively easy for a plain text or global text object to restore the (relevant) data from a rich text object.</p> <p>Pictures in rich text are stored using the picture’s own store and restore protocol, as required by concrete <xref href="GUID-829D57CD-9659-347B-AAE9-5F0A0ECD555C.dita"><apiname>CPicture</apiname></xref> implementations.</p> <p>The stream store is typically a file, but by allowing text to be restored into an already-existing document, support for two additional requirements is provided:</p> <ul><li id="GUID-F3840EAB-1923-5964-946D-24E2F93B24BD"><p>the clipboard: text may be copied to the clipboard (and then optionally deleted, to support cut), and pasted in from it</p> </li> <li id="GUID-ECD9124F-5050-5569-9C30-D1BC6D48A1A5"><p>undo buffers: a memory store may be used to hold inserted or deleted text, to achieve the effect of undo/redo</p> </li> </ul> <section><title>Storing and restoring</title> <p>Storing and restoring operations are optimised for efficiency for editable text. For instance, in rich text, <codeph>StoreL()</codeph> and <codeph>RestoreL()</codeph> may be used to store and restore the text content, its formatting, styles, fields and pictures in a single operation. Certain applications may want to store only certain parts of the text model; to save space, for example. Utilities are provided to store and restore certain components independently of each other.</p> </section> </conbody></concept>