<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-0C71B9C6-0782-5667-932A-07D770748DCE" xml:lang="en"><title>TextMTM utilities</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>In addition to the MTM component DLLs, a number of other programs
are provided. </p>
<section id="GUID-8A044535-B34F-4129-9871-2B2A8E1256BF"><title>Example Code</title> <p>Click on the following link
to download the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-419758e4-b663-48d3-bf21-d9c4bb00da23.zip" scope="external">TextMTM.zip </xref>  </p><p>Click: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-419758e4-b663-48d3-bf21-d9c4bb00da23.html" scope="peer">browse</xref> to view the example code. </p> <p>The files
reproduced here are the main files contained in the examples directory.
Some extra files may be needed to run the examples, and these will
be found in the appropriate examples directory </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-8996DA4F-9FCA-4D1A-A859-FDDED2A255CF"><title>Common classes: txut</title> <p>The <filepath>txut</filepath> project provides source for a small utilities DLL, which holds code
that must be shared between the Client and the Server-side Text MTM
components. </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-193A94E1-21B8-58E0-9196-8B99B315F657"><p> <codeph>TTxtProgress</codeph> encapsulates progress information. The Server-side MTM records its
progress using this class when performing copy and move operations.
The User Interface MTM can extract information from the class for
display to the user. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3A70D7CE-A8EB-5016-9EEB-C9D320B2778D"><p> <codeph>CMTMTxtSettings</codeph> encapsulates access to the MTM's settings as they are stored in
the central repository. <codeph>TMTMTxtSetting</codeph> encapsulates
the settings for a single TextMTM service. This contains only a single
property: the folder to which the service is mapped. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-ECA2F381-18F1-5BE8-9B6F-390A9AACF02F"><p> <codeph>TxtUtils</codeph> provides static utility functions. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-3B52CB7B-9F8C-4325-AA3E-D2E94E8E8DD3"><title>Classes used</title><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-AE4CD271-25CD-3115-9D49-F7A28CC83430.dita"><apiname>TTxtProgressCMTMTxtSettings </apiname></xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-E035803A-FFDA-36A7-B159-E2BABECF6F7B.dita"><apiname>TMTMTxtSettingTxtUtils</apiname></xref></p></li>
</ul></section>
</conbody></concept>