<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-88917386-AD48-4C76-A1C7-46F0B1E85A18" xml:lang="en"><title>Implementing
UI text localization</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>To allow your application to support different languages:</p>
<ol>
<li id="GUID-4C53C331-EDCB-49A6-A2AE-1946E0CBA85E"><p>In the resource
file for your application, use unique symbolic IDs, also known as a logical
name, for all UI texts that need to appear on the screen.</p>
<note>
<p>The Symbian platform provides some unique symbolic IDs that you can
use in your code, which means that the UI texts used for these IDs match those
used elsewhere in the device. Do not define any values for these symbolic
IDs.</p>
</note>
</li>
<li id="GUID-F64825B7-7A7F-4F07-ADFF-21C794534B39"><p>For each language
your application supports, create a resource file as follows:</p>
<ol>
<li id="GUID-509946C5-B45A-4481-8D71-F74DF32EF18A"><p>Create a text
file with the extension <parmname>lNN</parmname>, where NN is a two digit
number that matches the Symbian platform language code for your target language.</p>
<itemgroup>
<p>The file naming suggestion reflects the Symbian platform convention,
Symbian platform uses <parmname>&lt;application_name&gt;_NN.rls</parmname>.</p>
</itemgroup>
</li>
<li id="GUID-256733D4-214F-40E9-9DF1-E60469A8E8BD"><p>Define all
the symbolic IDs using the following syntax:</p>
<codeblock id="GUID-5EBA1490-2538-4AFA-B348-8D12D0322820" xml:space="preserve">#define symbolicID "value in target language"</codeblock>
<p>Each symbolic ID must be on its own line.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-AB1ADD82-91F4-4FEF-97C3-D077E73F8A4B"><p>Repeat for
each supported language.</p></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li id="GUID-089BCEFD-8E83-4CAE-80C8-14461BC333DC"><p>Create a file
to include the compiled localization files in your resource file, as follows:</p>
<ol>
<li id="GUID-44F02DD4-1502-4BAB-B128-5FC570CB6ABC"><p>Create a text
file with the extension <parmname>loc</parmname>.</p><p>The file naming
suggestion reflects the Symbian platform naming convention, Symbian platform
uses <parmname>&lt;application_name&gt;.rls</parmname>.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-D40E9CEB-031F-405A-B031-3B5DDB84C1B2"><p>Add <parmname>#ifdef</parmname>, <parmname>#elif</parmname>,
and <parmname>#include</parmname> statements for including the appropriate
languages in your application resource files. An example syntax is as follows:</p>
<codeblock id="GUID-702C92E6-EEE5-4C0F-8498-8C182C0F0097" xml:space="preserve">#ifndef __LOCALIZATION_LOC__
#define __LOCALIZATION_LOC__
                            
#ifdef LANGUAGE_SC			// language code for default
#include "..\data\localization.l01"

#elif LANGUAGE_01			// language code for UK
#include "..\data\localization.l01"

#endif 
#endif</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li id="GUID-3B918E68-258B-4724-9C15-58BC60713E75"><p>Include your <parmname>loc</parmname> file
in your resource file.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-E15A7374-0C92-48E8-8D47-955C974BFBB6"><p>Add your supported
language codes to the <parmname>LANG</parmname> statement in your project <parmname>mmp</parmname> file.</p>
</li>
<li id="GUID-F185FF9B-A926-44E5-9FAD-AD9ABFC8C215"><p>Build your
resource files</p>
<note>
<p>Some IDEs do not fully support building resource files for different
languages, so you may need to use the command line interface of the Symbian
build chain.</p>
</note>
</li>
<li id="GUID-88D12169-4847-426C-A0AE-8107DE18183F"><p>Include the
appropriate compiled resource files in your deployment package.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p> The following localization strategies are available:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Create an installation package for each language your application
supports and add only the appropriate compiled resource file to the package.</p>
</li>
<li><p>Create an installation package that includes support for
more than one language, which means there is more than one compiled resource
file in the package. The mobile device user selects the desired language upon
installation, and only the compiled resource file is installed.</p></li>
<li><p>Create an installation package that includes support for
more than one language, which means there is more than one compiled resource
file in the package.</p></li>
</ul>
</conbody></concept>