<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-9BD11817-54AC-5731-98EC-91B0C8686847" xml:lang="en"><title>What
Are Envelope Commands</title><shortdesc>This section describes the envelope commands and the functions
they provide to the client applications. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The envelope commands request the TSY to package the messages related to
the SAT. The envelope commands enable the communication between the SAT application
and SAT engine. The envelope commands cannot be used to instruct the device.
This section provides some envelope commands supported by Symbian platform. </p>
<section id="GUID-BB683C95-EE1F-5F4B-B705-4521FBA2248E"><title>Envelope command
functions</title> <p>Envelope commands allow the SAT engines to: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-43C07EF0-DF20-5291-B5DA-7CCE502D2FA8"><p>get the SAT features
that the device supports. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F1A586A0-4A9E-5D39-8944-5BFE34B274A8"><p>send the menu item selected
by the user to the client applications. The menu is created by a proactive
command. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-03E375FF-E68C-56F3-A00E-E37C8255A930"><p>notify the SAT engine
of any changes made to the earlier request by a call or a PDP context. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-4FCA420E-4658-54A3-808B-1ABB454DE5C9"><p>notify the SAT engine
of different events in the device like idle screen, channel, connection and
browser termination. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DBF877CF-444A-5637-ABEE-5B41DB4BB51B"><p>notify the client applications
of new Multimedia Messages (MMS). </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-CB91DF83-E8E3-54AB-9E74-388747C52232"><p>get the unstructured
service data from the network. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
</conbody></concept>