<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-0A66A882-09C8-5BB6-89A2-87133BD63338"><title>Adding a User-Defined 32-bit Field</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><section><title>Overview</title> <p> <xref href="GUID-725D11A2-8805-3466-98DB-EF5CDEAF2801.dita"><apiname>CCalEntry</apiname></xref> class allows a user-defined 32-bit field to be stored and retrieved through the entry. This is helpful in cases where a user wishes to add a field in an entry. The property of the field can be customised to contain required data, for example: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-E1ADF7A6-1636-5CA2-B497-5B6D1A2E53D5"><p>The ID of the originating message, to improve messaging integration with Calendar </p> </li> <li id="GUID-7C330891-92AB-516A-83B5-18757F2B4B0B"><p>Whether the event has been sent from the device since being edited </p> </li> <li id="GUID-B4546D1A-C849-5AA7-BECA-00DB0CE94F7C"><p>Whether the event has ever been sent from the device (affects UI interaction) </p> </li> <li id="GUID-C01FDBAB-890F-5D92-93E9-430FC71B3520"><p>Whether the event was created by Microsoft iCalendar with the bad Recurrence ID. </p> </li> </ul> <p>The user is able to store and retrieve specific features for that entry. </p> </section> <section><title>Get and set the value of the user integer</title> <p>The API <xref href="GUID-725D11A2-8805-3466-98DB-EF5CDEAF2801.dita#GUID-725D11A2-8805-3466-98DB-EF5CDEAF2801/GUID-FD872EC5-6DC4-37CC-B373-F528A73F5B5D"><apiname>CCalEntry::SetUserIntL(TUint32)</apiname></xref> sets the integer for a specific entry, where <xref href="GUID-F58A1C0D-1B36-37EA-8012-1C74B2D12CAD.dita"><apiname>TUint32</apiname></xref> is the unsigned integer. </p> <p>The API <xref href="GUID-6FAD06A0-4AFA-326D-897C-F0F7CBD01B70.dita#GUID-6FAD06A0-4AFA-326D-897C-F0F7CBD01B70/GUID-B143AFD8-BA8D-38A3-87F9-2CF84035305C"><apiname>TUint32 CCalEntry::GetUserInt()</apiname></xref> gets the value of a user integer. </p> </section> <section><title>Import and export of a property</title> <p>When importing a vCalendar file, the property X-SYMBIAN-USERINT is read and converted to the calendar entry. </p> <p>When exporting a calendar entry the value of the user integer is exported as a user-defined property X-SYMBIAN-USERINT in a vCalendar file. </p> </section> </conbody></concept>