<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-2EBA62F2-26B0-46FE-BDB8-E2A2B7CE6FF3" xml:lang="en"><title>Reserving
the lights</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context>       <p>The <codeph>ReserveLightL()</codeph> call reserves the
light target(s) exclusively for this client. Multiple lights can be specified
by using bitwise-or. A higher priority client may cause lower priority client
reservation to be temporarily suspended. Commands can still be issued in suspended
state, but they are not acted upon unless suspension is lifted within a specified
duration. The suspended client does not get any notification about suspension.
If the light target is already reserved by a higher or equal priority application,
reserving still succeeds, but the reservation is immediately suspended.</p><p>The
following code snippet demonstrates how to reserve multiple light targets:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">//aRestoreState = ETrue means that any previously frozen state will be restored.
// aForceNoCCoeEnv = EFalse means that the CCoeEnv background/foreground status
// is always used to control further reservations.
iLight-&gt;ReserveLightL( ( CHWRMExtendedLight::EPrimaryDisplay | CHWRMExtendedLight::EPrimaryKeyboard ), ETrue, EFalse );</codeblock></context>
</taskbody></task>