<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-DC0BF2A3-613B-595C-BF47-07F29E2A7893" xml:lang="en"><title>Leaf
Directory Name Cache Configuration Tutorial</title><shortdesc>Describes how to configure the cache for Leaf Directories in the
FAT file system. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<prereq id="GUID-B6A57876-D5D9-5B28-92F4-B5721265619D"><p>Before you start,
you must: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-84410516-D4E6-5931-9D20-FE277652E816"><p>have the knowledge of
the <xref href="GUID-AFFC4002-3A06-5458-A4D9-1E0AEDB8C534.dita">FAT file system </xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7AF7A28B-2975-5BC3-B5C8-BB344A598EA5"><p>have the knowledge of <xref href="GUID-AFFC4002-3A06-5458-A4D9-1E0AEDB8C534.dita#GUID-AFFC4002-3A06-5458-A4D9-1E0AEDB8C534/GUID-266ACC2C-DEE2-51E0-915B-DBB75AA9BEA8">Leaf
Directory Name cache</xref>. </p> </li>
</ul> </prereq>
<context id="GUID-FE52BD47-4F97-5C8F-BD5D-15351EB10D77"><p>The available size
of the leaf directory name cache is customisable. The customisation enables
the licensees to balance between the memory and performance of a system. A
typical leaf directory name cache entry requires 10 bytes to 0.5 Kilobytes.
The available memory for the cache is configured in the <filepath>estart.txt</filepath> file
by specifying the number of entries to be cached in each drive. The developers
must configure each drive available on the device. </p> <p>To add the number
of leaf directory names to be cached in the <filepath>estart.txt</filepath> file,
do the following: </p></context>
<steps id="GUID-5B7D55B8-C77F-5921-81DA-90C4BE2A10CD">
<step id="GUID-7D44FA9E-5563-54DF-B0D9-2024514B744D"><cmd>Open the estart.txt
file </cmd>
</step>
<step id="GUID-F572963E-88D7-5A08-966A-19173623CC2C"><cmd/>
<info>Create an entry for a drive </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-F5D8DA4F-55DC-5497-9822-85294E0418C4"><cmd/>
<info>Add the number of recently used files to be cached in the leaf directory
name cache for a drive. For example, if 32 most recently used leaf directory
names must be cached for drive &lt;code&gt;D:\&lt;/code&gt;, then add the following
entry in the <filepath>estart.txt</filepath>  file. <note>  The default value
is 1. Even if there is no  entry created in the estart.txt, the file server
remembers the last visited  entry created in the estart.txt, the file server
remembers the last visited file. The recommended maximum value for the leaf
directory name cache is 32.</note></info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-E2F30B63-F795-5D12-9865-BF01DF832FC4"><cmd/>
<info>Repeat the steps 2 and 3 for other drives </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-77793647-1EC2-5F4A-BBA1-FF177EDC0202"><cmd/>
<info>Save and close the <filepath>estart.txt</filepath> file </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-88F40D66-9324-59D3-AAA1-46A207F42D98"><cmd/>
<info>Build the ROM </info>
</step>
</steps>
<result id="GUID-D4275C32-CB1E-531D-ADAD-129CFB2FFFA1"><p>32 most recently
used leaf directory names will be cached in the leaf directory name cache
for drive <codeph>D:</codeph>  </p> </result>
</taskbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-3D8B134E-3C2F-5BAF-82AB-0AB786A5D22D.dita"><linktext>Directory
Cache                 Configuration Tutorial</linktext></link>
</related-links></task>