<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-C99BA704-4E9F-482C-942F-1B4D7F385BD8" xml:lang="en"><title>HelloWorldBasic_reg.rss</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>You need to register your applications in order to make them visible
to the application launcher and to provide other information to the underlying
system. To register, you need to provide a registration resource file, typically
named <parmname>&lt;application_name&gt;_reg.rss</parmname>, that contains the
non-localized information for your application. This section contains an example
of such a file.</p>
<p>For more information on registration files in general, see <xref href="GUID-FE9017F4-4197-472F-A3E7-267169A51ABD.dita">Registration</xref>. </p>
<p>For information on creating your own registration resource files, see <xref href="GUID-BF1AAA0D-DF2F-4E1D-A0D2-F419BD32F97A.dita">Creating
registration resource files</xref>.</p>
<codeblock id="GUID-631DE04B-6396-4CAD-B428-3342D06BA732" xml:space="preserve">#include "Helloworldbasic.rls"
</codeblock>
<p>This preprocessor statement adds the <parmname>rls</parmname> project
file that controls the strings loaded for different languages based on the
Symbian OS language setting to the preprocessing path. For more information
on localisation, see <xref href="GUID-E111C4E8-1342-4E87-ACB4-5B630AF1501C.dita">Internationalization
and localization</xref>.</p>
<codeblock id="GUID-1081D8D5-FE34-4A9F-B335-32E9A809314F" xml:space="preserve">#include  &lt;appinfo.rh&gt;
</codeblock>
<p>This preprocessor statement adds the resource header file that provides
the data structure used for the <parmname>RESOURCE</parmname> statement in
this registration resource file.</p>
<codeblock id="GUID-C78D64EE-3ED7-4A8A-96C6-C048879F35C2" xml:space="preserve">#include  &lt;HelloWorldBasic.rsg&gt;

</codeblock>
<p>This preprocessor statement adds the generated resource header file
for the <i>HelloWorldBasic</i> application to the preprocessor path to allow
access to the <parmname>R_HELLOWORLDBASIC_LOCALISABLE_APP_INFO</parmname> resource.</p>
<codeblock id="GUID-6921E324-DF9E-4646-9ED9-8139F1A7816A" xml:space="preserve">UID2 KUidAppRegistrationResourceFile
</codeblock>
<p>This required statement defines the UID2 value for a registration resource
file. </p>
<codeblock id="GUID-C3F02E64-0C14-4A31-BBC2-772021D3E833" xml:space="preserve">UID3 0xA000017F

</codeblock>
<p>This required statement defines the <xref href="GUID-EA05F9B6-52C7-4BD9-8B9A-4BA3456E70B5.dita">UID3</xref> of
the application.</p>
<codeblock id="GUID-CCFD588A-30DC-43ED-9AB1-AB2AC3A83079" xml:space="preserve">RESOURCE APP_REGISTRATION_INFO
  {
  app_file="HelloWorldBasic";
  localisable_resource_file =  STRING_r_helloworldbasic_loc_resource_file_1;
  localisable_resource_id = R_HELLOWORLDBASIC_LOCALISABLE_APP_INFO;

  embeddability=KAppNotEmbeddable;
  newfile=KAppDoesNotSupportNewFile;
  }

</codeblock>
<p>This <parmname>RESOURCE</parmname> definition contains the nonlocalizable
properties of the <i>HelloWorldBasic</i> application, where</p>
<ul>
<li><p><parmname>HelloWorldBasic</parmname> is the name of the application
executable</p></li>
<li><p><parmname>STRING_r_helloworldbasic_loc_resource_file_1</parmname> contains
the value <parmname>\\resource\\apps\\HelloWorldBasic</parmname> in all <parmname>rls</parmname> files.
This is the location of the <i>HelloWorldBasic</i> resource files.</p>
</li>
<li><p><parmname>R_HELLOWORLDBASIC_LOCALISABLE_APP_INFO</parmname> is
the identifier for the resource declared in <parmname>helloworldbasic.rss</parmname> that
contains the short caption, caption, and icon information</p></li>
<li><p><parmname>KAppNotEmbeddable</parmname> indicates that <i>HelloWorldBasic</i> is
not embeddable</p></li>
<li><p><parmname>KAppDoesNotSupportNewFile</parmname> indicates
that <i>HelloWorldBasic</i> does not support new files</p></li>
</ul>
</conbody></concept>