<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-C45DA7A0-E41B-4393-BE1A-CF1DF35566D1" xml:lang="en"><title>SysLibs
Test Suite Overview</title><abstract><p>The SIP client test suite contains automated tests used to verify
whether APIs work as expected. This test suite involves negative testing to
confirm that the errors are documented.</p><p>The SysLibs test suite contains
test scripts, test data and configuration files required for testing the <xref href="GUID-324107D1-6E0B-56DD-BDC0-7296F688A9CF.dita">ECom</xref> component. </p><p>ECom
is the Symbian platform plug-in architecture, allowing interface implementations
to be discovered and selected for use (amongst other benefits). ECom architecture
contains: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-001E36BA-C044-52B7-8AC3-82C9AE33C724"><p>Client session API </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-FA830DBC-6730-5D7D-B1E2-19C1E977FE42"><p>Implementation information
container for the ECom registration data relating to a particular interface
implementation. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C604F139-86EF-55C0-B41C-AC0730061F1E"><p>Resolver data to pass
values to a resolver to aid in the filtering of interface implementation plug-ins. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>The SysLibs ECom test suite provides regression tests for <xref href="GUID-3107B19B-0607-3E9E-AEA5-BAD07EEC59D0.dita"><apiname>CImplementationInformation</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-1344F049-81C4-3D17-AF46-8B5584680ADB.dita"><apiname>REComSession</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-6E3118A3-4CE5-32AD-9C73-5CDD7B54D9EC.dita"><apiname>TEComResolverParams</apiname></xref> classes. </p> <p>All API's that Symbian classify
as PublisedAll are tested within these classes. </p> <p> <b>Note: </b>Any
mention to <filepath>epoc32</filepath> is offset by <codeph>%EPOCROOT%</codeph>. </p></abstract><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog></concept>