<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-EAF3FCBE-A68C-4881-A461-774D481DD315" xml:lang="en"><title>Supported
OMA DRM v2.0 features</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The following table summarizes the OMA DRM v2.0 features that the Symbian
platform supports.</p>
<table id="GUID-A06BFAD8-500A-4A39-A4E9-4CD04927BBD4">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry><p>Feature</p></entry>
<entry><p>Description</p></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>The <xref href="GUID-DBB9B5EA-6A15-42A0-9511-96756BAC382F.dita">rights
object  acquisition protocol </xref> (ROAP) schema parsing and processing
over HTTP</p></entry>
<entry><p>ROAP enables devices to request and acquire rights objects securely
over HTTP from a rights issuer.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Storing <xref href="GUID-788FCBFA-B4FB-4001-B838-4B59995E2E33.dita">rights
issuer</xref> context information</p></entry>
<entry><p>The rights issuer context information, such as agreed protocol parameters,
protocol versions, and certificate preferences, is stored in a secure location
inside the device.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Certificate checking, including online certificate status protocol
(OCSP) response validation</p></entry>
<entry><p>A device must verify signed rights issuer responses and <xref href="GUID-6E09A5CE-F51A-4FFB-A578-70D09C38AAFA.dita">rights
objects</xref> as well as check the validity and status of the rights issuer
certificate and any other revocable certificates in the rights issuer certificate
chain. To enable the device to check the certificate, the rights issuer must
include a complete set of OCSP responses for its certificate chain when sending
signed responses to the device.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>DRM content and rights object formats, including rights object fields
expressing permissions and constraints</p></entry>
<entry><p>Rights object are formatted in the rights expression language (REL),
which is a mobile profile of open digital rights language (ODRL) v1.1. REL
enables accurate specification of relevant metadata and actual rights. The <xref href="GUID-1DF3E313-4FBE-495B-8DC7-CF7024C9B929.dita">DRM content format</xref> is
specified in the OMA DRM Content Format v2.0 document (included in the OMA
DRM v2.0 specification).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Replay protection for rights objects</p></entry>
<entry><p>Rights objects that contain counters, intervals, timed counters
or accumulated time constraints are monitored by the DRM system to prevent
sending the same rights object several times.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>DRM time and DRM time synchronization</p></entry>
<entry><p>Secure time for rights enforcement. Time is synchronized automatically
with ROAP.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Capability signaling</p></entry>
<entry><p>Capabilities are signaled using HTTP headers and the user agent
profile.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Domain model support</p></entry>
<entry><p>The service provider can enable or
disable this feature.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Secure backup and restore of content and usage rights</p></entry>
<entry><p>Users can take device backups that include DRM protected content
and rights objects. The security level is ensured with strong encryption.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Playback of OMA DRM v2.0 protected audio in third party applications</p></entry>
<entry/>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Binding DRM v2.0 specific rights objects to the SIM card</p></entry>
<entry><p>If the device supports a SIM/USIM/R-UIM and the <codeph>uid</codeph> element
of a child context element of an individual element within an OMA DRM v2 rights
object specifies an IMSI, the <xref href="GUID-E7F74FD2-C79E-4C9D-ADBC-5366F424D347.dita">DRM
agent</xref> observes the following behavior: when the associated content
is selected for rendering, the DRM agent checks that it matches the IMSI on
the currently installed SIM/USIM/R-UIM.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody></concept>