<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-E8E855EE-3E68-5FEA-AE2D-83FCB39865E8"><title>Network Request Handler Overview</title><shortdesc>The Network Request Handler (NRH) is responsible for processing and responding to privacy and location requests received from the network (MT-LR, Emergency MT-LR and NI-LR). It also provides an interface for installed applications to send the handset’s current location to remote third parties (MO-LR transmit to third party). </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The Network Request Handler (NRH) is responsible for processing and responding to privacy and location requests received from the network (MT-LR, Emergency MT-LR and NI-LR). Privacy requests are forwarded to a privacy handler for processing, which may be Privacy Notifier or Privacy Controller. </p> <p>The NRH also provides an interface to local client applications that need to send the handset’s current location to remote third parties (MO-LR transmit to third party, also known as X3P in Symbian platform LBS documentation). </p> </section> <section><title>Required background</title> <p>Knowledge of <xref href="GUID-7233BC33-6060-5D6B-A5D2-01135F059337.dita">LBS architecture</xref> is required. </p> </section> <section><title>Key concepts and terms</title> <dl><dlentry><dt>Network Request Handler Server</dt> <dd><p>The Symbian platform server responsible for handling location requests from the network. </p> </dd> </dlentry> <dlentry><dt>MT-LR</dt> <dd><p>Mobile Terminated Location Request. A request from the network for the device location. It consists of two parts, a privacy request and a location request. The NRH processes MT-LRs. </p> </dd> </dlentry> <dlentry><dt>NI-LR</dt> <dd><p>Network Initiated Location Request. A request from the network for the device location. It consists of only a location request without a privacy request. The NRH processes NI-LRs. </p> </dd> </dlentry> <dlentry><dt>Privacy request</dt> <dd><p>The part of an MT-LR that requires a privacy response from a privacy handler. See <xref href="GUID-CDE5CC9D-F6DE-5A21-97C3-59A2F3398A15.dita">Privacy Requests</xref> for more information. </p> </dd> </dlentry> </dl> </section> <section><title>Architecture</title> <p>See <xref href="GUID-7233BC33-6060-5D6B-A5D2-01135F059337.dita">LBS Architecture Overview</xref> for more information. </p> </section> <section><title>APIs</title> <p>This section provides links to the APIs provided by the NRH. </p> <table id="GUID-973B98E9-8529-53A6-8E99-7A6B54F25BD4"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><thead><row><entry>API</entry> <entry>Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p><xref href="GUID-90757A79-A001-52BF-81D9-CFA02FDDE1BE.dita">Transmit to Third Party API (X3P API)</xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Allows installed applications to send the current location to a contact or service. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p><xref href="GUID-D857413A-D5A1-5F9F-A780-C980A9E0BEE0.dita">Privacy Controller API</xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Allows device creators to develop a Privacy Controller application to automatically handle MT-LR privacy requests. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p><xref href="GUID-F8C5A22F-8433-5F50-B12A-E964572E6C23.dita">Privacy Notifier API</xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Allows device creators to develop notifiers to query the user when MT-LR privacy requests are received. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p><xref href="GUID-8226320F-2F3A-575F-9950-B98C67472DAD.dita">Privacy Q&amp;N Notifier API</xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A deprecated API for creating notifiers. Use of the Privacy Notifier API is recommended. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-CDE5CC9D-F6DE-5A21-97C3-59A2F3398A15.dita"><linktext>Privacy
                Requests</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-7233BC33-6060-5D6B-A5D2-01135F059337.dita"><linktext>LBS Architecture Overview</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>