<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-B760B3C9-26C7-528E-B699-7D374A65DF29"><title>Location Server Overview</title><shortdesc>The Location Server component of the LBS system model contains a Symbian platform server to manage location requests from installed applications (MO-LR self locate requests). </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The Location Server is a Symbian platform server that manages location requests from installed applications (MO-LR self locate requests). Location requests to the Location Server are made using the <xref href="GUID-D0318BB6-0B9F-5A1C-AB0B-61BA22D28661.dita">Location Acquisition API</xref>. </p> </section> <section><title>Key concepts and terms</title> <dl><dlentry><dt>Location Server</dt> <dd><p>The Symbian platform server responsible for handling location requests from installed applications. </p> </dd> </dlentry> <dlentry><dt>MO-LR</dt> <dd><p>Mobile Originated Location Request (3GPP term). A request from a client application installed on the device to get the current location. These requests are handled by the Location Server. </p> <p> </p> </dd> </dlentry> </dl> </section> <section><title>Architecture</title> <p>The Location Server component (<filepath>eposserver.exe</filepath>) of LBS supports: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-066A85F0-D7EB-5D9C-A4B2-D2C9F76034CE"><p>Internal hardware for GPS or A-GPS positioning </p> </li> <li id="GUID-6CE8C981-4B2E-5086-90B1-3D322ABCD76E"><p>Internal hardware for other positioning technologies (such as WLAN positioning) through a generic Positioning plug-In (PSY) API </p> </li> <li id="GUID-9B2F65F9-96EC-5245-B2FE-5EB7F39A35ED"><p>Cell based positioning </p> </li> <li id="GUID-00548A7E-13A7-5DB2-BF0D-0211A8993974"><p>Bluetooth external GPS hardware </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>APIs</title> <p>The Location Server component supports two published APIs. </p> <table id="GUID-2BF3F008-D2D4-5A0F-ADDD-C37EF773ACAE"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><thead><row><entry>API</entry> <entry>Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p><xref href="GUID-D0318BB6-0B9F-5A1C-AB0B-61BA22D28661.dita">Location Acquisition API</xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The API used by installed applications to get location information and get information about installed positioning modules. It is used by application developers. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p><xref href="GUID-5E6CA805-6861-54B1-8687-B997A6F4E6EE.dita">Quality Profile API</xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The API used to read quality profile information from the LBS subsystem. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-D0318BB6-0B9F-5A1C-AB0B-61BA22D28661.dita"><linktext>Location Acquisition API</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-0BA3A457-98BC-52FE-AF14-3B59806E01AA.dita"><linktext>Quality
                Profiles</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-D18B4715-3942-52EA-9D2F-E145037FA47A.dita"><linktext>LBS
                Integration and Configuration Guide</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-7233BC33-6060-5D6B-A5D2-01135F059337.dita"><linktext>LBS Architecture Overview</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>