<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-5491D859-C348-5C39-AAE0-783A3A4B69B3"><title> Architecture</title><shortdesc>This section provides the architectural relationship between the packet data telephony classes. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>Packet data telephony provides additional interface to the basic telephony interfaces. The Packet data API takes the client requests and passes the request to the telephony server. The server passes the request to the telephony device driver the <filepath>.TSY</filepath> module. The TSY module manages the communications with the telephony hardware. </p> <section><title>Description</title> <p>The packet telephony classes are <b>R</b> classes. The R classes communicate with the telephony server. All the R classes are derived from <xref href="GUID-D8BBA972-82CB-3561-8913-4659103C263C.dita"><apiname>RTelSubSessionBase</apiname></xref>. <xref href="GUID-D8BBA972-82CB-3561-8913-4659103C263C.dita"><apiname>RTelSubSessionBase</apiname></xref> manages a sub-session to the telephony server. </p> <p>The following section outlines the packet telephony classes: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-56ECF429-E95E-54F5-992A-5CB7D61C10C2"><p> <xref href="GUID-1CD9122E-B077-39FD-8CAE-45A6AF8F345F.dita"><apiname>RPacketContext</apiname></xref> defines the context of a connection to the packet switched service. The client applications can configure, change and activate a context. A context is the configuration for a packet switched connection. </p> <p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-C2CF49A8-E1AC-565B-8C7F-28C89D59600F.dita">Packet Context</xref>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-D37E2E2A-CAAB-5571-AE61-9DEAB0354C9C"><p> <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService</apiname></xref> enables the client applications to control a packet switched connection. The client applications can attach and remove the phone to the packet network. The client applications can also get the packet network capabilities. </p> <p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-6C557DE7-160B-5B90-B017-AD8762F6B8A9.dita">Packet Service</xref>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-F3296E78-569A-5AB7-9907-583B235F1B3B"><p> <xref href="GUID-0712C389-1D3B-3CA5-9602-A3D9128DBD13.dita"><apiname>RPacketQoS</apiname></xref> encapsulates the functions to configure QoS options for a particular context. </p> <p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-D7CA0388-B47F-587C-87BF-D39AF38ACE73.dita">Packet Quality of Service</xref>. </p> </li> </ul> <p>The packet networks offered access to are: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-F27A51ED-A840-53F8-9AC2-F58C2F2F778E"><p>GPRS Release 97/98 </p> </li> <li id="GUID-66BEDABC-9503-5A56-A970-21C1108FB2F5"><p>CDMA and CDMA2000 </p> </li> <li id="GUID-DE2A2BE9-6C59-5FD1-9789-73E13B7E79D8"><p>GPRS/UMTS Release 99 and UMTS Release 4 </p> </li> </ul> </section> </conbody></concept>