<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-CE308C71-D8B2-43B3-97FD-B868285ED5FB" xml:lang="en"><title>OOM
Monitor Priority</title><shortdesc>This section explains the OOM Monitor priority and the values that
can be set.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-950C05B0-1FA9-44D0-90F0-D3AB1EEF4476"><p>To release RAM
the OOM Monitor uses priorities to determine the order of closing the applications.
The OOM Monitor assigns priority for each application which determines the
order (in relation to other applications) of closing the application. </p><p>A
priority of an application is a measure of impact to the mobile device user
in case the OOM Monitor closes that application. Thus closing a low priority
application means that it will have a minimum impact on the user. And closing
of high priority application will have a high impact on the user.</p><p>The
OOM Monitor closes the lowest priority application first as this will have
the smallest impact on the user. It will continue to close the applications
until the amount of the free RAM is above the <keyword>GOOD_RAM_THRESHOLD</keyword> value.</p><p>If
two or more applications have the same priority the OOM Monitor closes these
applications based on their idle time. The application that has stayed idle
for the longest time will be closed first.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-0E58AC12-78BD-4FFC-906E-08EBB46CA26C"><title>Priority for
internal application</title><p> The priority of each internal application
can be defined in the OOM Monitor configuration file. If the priority of an
application is not defined it will have the default priority. Default priority
is also defined in the configuration file. </p><p>The priority of an application
is not always constant. OOM Monitor configuration file can contain rules that
determine how the priority is changed for an application when its idle time
gets longer or when the foreground application is changed. For more information
on the rules that can be set to change priorities, refer to <xref href="GUID-54D5CBD5-0A1F-4835-B5F3-492728B9F51E.dita">Rules
to change priority dynamically</xref></p><p/></section>
<section id="GUID-6D51C8AD-6217-4924-8E55-E5A9459F78A0"><title>Priority for
third-party application</title><p>Third-party applications can use the following
priorities:</p><ul>
<li><p><codeph>Normal</codeph> (default priority)</p></li>
<li><p><codeph>High</codeph></p></li>
<li><p><codeph>Busy</codeph> (infinite priority)</p></li>
</ul><p>By default the priority of a third-party application is <codeph>Normal</codeph> but
it is possible to change the priority as required. For information on increasing
the priority of a third-party application, see <xref href="GUID-1E4FFC56-8473-4E0A-B2E2-4E8DE8B1D00F.dita">Increasing
the Priority of a Third-Party Application</xref></p><p>The OOM Monitor cannot
close a foreground application. The device user can also define the <codeph>Busy</codeph> priority
for background applications which means that those applications are never
closed by the OOM Monitor. For information on how to change the priority of
an application to <codeph>Busy</codeph>, refer to <xref href="GUID-8F8E3814-7ED6-4218-BEEF-741AE0E9366F.dita">Changing
the Priority</xref>.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>