<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-D024ACD7-98E0-51D7-9345-8E0224D2CF02" xml:lang="en"><title>Overriding
the SMTP Mobility Account Settings </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This tutorial explains how to override an SMTP mobility account setting
for per-bearer-type. </p>

<section><title>Introduction</title> <p>The <xref href="GUID-72BF08A4-2724-3F42-A685-F97F68133B69.dita"><apiname>TSmtpMobilityAccount</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-AA86050B-00E4-3EEC-9E41-32C1A4493D30.dita"><apiname>CImSmtpMobilitySettings</apiname></xref> class
are used to override the SMTP mobility account settings. The <xref href="GUID-72BF08A4-2724-3F42-A685-F97F68133B69.dita"><apiname>TSmtpMobilityAccount</apiname></xref> class
encapsulates the name of the mobility account, and associates with a parent
SMTP account; that is, the SMTP account that is to be overridden. This is
associated with an array of IAPs for which this mobility account should be
used. Finally, the settings for the mobility account are stored, and are recoverable
as a <xref href="GUID-AA86050B-00E4-3EEC-9E41-32C1A4493D30.dita"><apiname>CImSmtpMobilitySettings</apiname></xref> class. </p> </section>
<section><title>Procedure</title><p>You can override an SMTP mobility account
setting for per-bearer-type in the following ways:</p><p><b>Method 1</b></p><p>Creating
an SMTP mobility account with settings to be used for specified IAPs, and
associate this with an existing SMTP account. To do this, complete the following
steps:</p><ol>
<li id="GUID-246AF581-C062-4F78-826E-1105329FD457"><p>Create an instance of theCEmailAccounts class.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-9E38C747-0F0F-4E17-9698-81DCC82CED19"><p>Use the <codeph>CEmailAccounts::GetSmtpAccountL()</codeph> function,
to get the ID of the SMTP account for the mobility account used.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-1B592D5F-0157-4660-B02C-6581DFB00816"><p>Create an instance of the<codeph> CImSmtpMobilitySettings</codeph> class,
and populate according appropriately for the remote server settings.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-BB99DFD6-F2FA-4D68-B582-A3A6753CA0B0"><p>Use the <codeph>CEmailAccounts::PopulateDefaultSmtpMobilitySettingsL()</codeph> function
to populate the remote server settings, for example, server name, login, port,
email address, password, SMTP authentication, and so on. </p></li>
<li id="GUID-95725178-F546-4D1A-BDA3-D4CF0A0FB92D"><p>Create an instance of the <codeph>RArrayIAP</codeph> class, and populate
it with bearer access point IDs for the mobility account shall be used. </p></li>
<li id="GUID-F1287F2F-A405-4460-9134-CAC4CEE115F3"><p>Create a mobility account in the central repository using the following
function:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">CEmailAccounts::(const TDesC&amp;, const RArrayIAP&amp;, const TSmtpAccount&amp;, const CImSmtpMobilitySettings&amp;, TBool)</codeblock></li>
</ol><p><b>Method 2</b></p><p>Creating an SMTP mobility account with settings
linked to an existing SMTP account (account A) to be used for specified IAPs,
and associate this with an SMTP account (account B). To do this, complete
the following steps: </p><ol>
<li id="GUID-B3E70737-086B-4AA4-B54D-26291230ACC3"><p>Create an instance of the <codeph>CEmailAccounts</codeph> class. </p></li>
<li id="GUID-CDE75329-5DA9-48C0-B136-0D15431B54B7"><p>Using the <codeph>CEmailAccounts::GetSmtpAccountL()</codeph> function,
obtain the ID of the SMTP account to which the SMTP mobility account’s settings
are to be linked (account A). </p></li>
<li id="GUID-1BBABC30-0A59-4F0E-8322-31C421C4865D"><p>Use the <codeph>CEmailAccounts::GetSmtpAccountL()</codeph> function,
to get the ID of the SMTP account for which the SMTP mobility account overrides
the default account settings for specified IAPs (account B).</p></li>
<li id="GUID-61F3E224-A98D-4AA1-9808-CE026174D56E"><p>Create an instance of the <codeph>RArrayIAP</codeph> class, and populate
with bearer access point IDs for the mobility account. </p></li>
<li id="GUID-20737DE1-E55B-4FD1-9ED7-A4A53B752D0B"><p>Create the mobility account in the central repository using the following
function: </p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">CEmailAccounts::CreateSmtpMobilityAccountL(const TDesC&amp;, const RArrayIAP&amp;, const TSmtpAccount&amp;, const TSmtpAccount&amp; aLinkedSmtpAccount, TBool)</codeblock></li>
</ol></section>
<section><title>See also</title> <p> <xref href="GUID-24860917-0FE2-5C8F-B436-96928350996E.dita">Bearer
Mobility Overview</xref>  </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>