<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="GUID-0BE71FC3-4759-50FC-A74F-C3DD42C9FCED" xml:lang="en"><title>Languages
Supported</title><abstract><p>The languages statement lists the languages supported by the
SIS file. It is a comma separated list of language identifiers preceded by
an ampersand(<codeph>&amp;</codeph>) character.</p></abstract><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><refbody>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title> <codeblock id="GUID-FC4E9BCD-F15B-5451-B232-3BA46C3E511E" xml:space="preserve">&amp;lang-code [(dialect-ID)], lang-code [(dialect-ID)], ...
</codeblock> <ul>
<li id="GUID-42549C49-E603-56AF-9226-94D1E437143B"><p> <b> lang-code </b> -
is a two character language abbreviation used to specify the supported language
variants. </p> <p>It defines the order in which the localized vendor names,
package-header, options-list, language-specific files and dependency components
must be specified in a PKG file. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0B8BC35D-6B95-5A5A-B271-B56E82206AAA"><p> <b> dialect-ID </b> -
is optionally added as a number, defined by the device creators, in parentheses
after a <codeph>lang-code</codeph>. </p> </li>
</ul> </refsyn>
<example><title>Examples</title> <ul>
<li id="GUID-18883991-4F12-5073-9B1B-4B925ED47CD1"><p>In the following example,
English, French, and Zulu are specified as the languages suppported by the
SIS file. Accordingly, the localised vendor name, package header and install
files are specified for each supported language. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-BBA65FD2-705F-5223-8B5E-73D84ADB7855" xml:space="preserve">
&amp;EN,FR,ZU(1024)

%{"Vendorname-EN", "Vendorname-FR, Vendorname-ZU"}

#{"MyApp-EN", "MyApp-FR", "MyApp-ZU"}, (0x1000001F), 1, 2, 3, TYPE=SA

{"text\englishfile.txt" "text\frenchfile.txt" "text\zulufile.txt"} - "C:\private\E800005A\file.txt"
        </codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-A27E52A0-AE40-5665-8E82-45FA1D931167"><p>The following example
package file illustrates the usage of multiple languages and dialect codes.
Two dialects are specified for each supported language. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-0767BC0D-C8E2-5DEF-97DE-B316F7033CF4" xml:space="preserve">; This package file shows the dialects feature

&amp;EN(1024),EN(2048),FR(1024),FR(2048),GE(1024),GE(2048)

#{"English-1024","English-2048","French-1024","French-2048","German-1024","German-2048"}, (0x1000001F), 1, 2, 3, TYPE=SA

%{"Vendor","Vendor","Vendeur","Vendeur","Verkaufer","Verkaufer"}
:"Vendor"

"dialect-3lang-2dial.txt"-"",FT,TC
{"text\english-1024.txt" "text\english-2048.txt" "text\french-1024.txt" "text\french-2048.txt" "text\german-1024.txt" "text\german-2048.txt"}-"$:\private\10000020\import\dialect.txt"
</codeblock> </li>
</ul> </example>
</refbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-B3BE018B-0EC5-5866-9BD7-50CBF5670324.dita"><linktext>Language-Neutral
Files</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-9D5F3B5E-37FB-5156-808B-F92519412A7F.dita"><linktext>Language
Dependent Files</linktext></link>
</related-links></reference>