<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-2988AB7C-F8BB-5917-BB22-A57C0CC56C73" xml:lang="en"><title> Configuring
the base_perf_f32_env.ini File</title><shortdesc> Describes the common configuration items for each test case that
can be configured in the <filepath>base_perf_f32_env.ini</filepath> file. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p><note> Changing this configuration file has an impact on the entire test
suite as each test uses the contents of this file for its specific test scenario.</note> </p>
<p>The configurable items in the <filepath>base_perf_f32_env.ini</filepath> file
are listed in the following table: </p>
<table id="GUID-07452553-4920-527F-BA4D-713189B04D04">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Field name</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <b>Description</b>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>csvFileName </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines the default name of the <filepath>.CSV</filepath> file and
its location. The data within this parameter can be in one of the following
formats: </p> <p> <filepath> &lt;Drive Letter&gt;: \&lt;name of file&gt;.csv</filepath>  </p> <p>-
OR - </p> <p> <filepath>&lt;Drive Letter&gt;: \&lt;location&gt;\&lt;name of    
            file&gt;.csv</filepath>  </p> <p>The <filepath>.CSV</filepath> file
contains readable test results. By default, this file is named <filepath>f32-perfResults.csv</filepath> and
is stored in the <filepath>C:</filepath> drive. </p> <p><note> This value
is used by all test cases.</note> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>threadname </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines the default name of the thread handle to be created, for
all test cases. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>stacksize </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines a default integer that specifies the stack size allocated
to the thread handle. The default is set to <b>0x2000</b>. </p> <p>This value
is used by all test cases. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>minheapsize </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines a default integer value that specifies the minimum heap
size allocated to the thread handle. By default, this is set to <b>256 KB</b> or <b>0x100</b>. </p> <p><note> This
value is used by all test cases. </note></p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>maxheapsize </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines a default value that specifies the maximum heap size allocated
to the thread handle. By default, this is set to <b>1 MB</b> or <b>0x100</b>. </p> <note><p> This
value is used by all test cases. </p></note> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>ownertype </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines a default <codeph>TOwnerType</codeph> enumeration value
that defines the ownership of this thread handle. By default, this is set
to <codeph>EOwnerProcess</codeph>. </p> <note><p> This value is used by all
test cases. </p></note> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>threadpriority </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines a default <codeph>TThreadPriority</codeph> enumeration value
that defines the priority of the thread handle. By default, this is set to <codeph>EPriorityLess</codeph>. </p> <note><p> This
value is used by all test cases. </p></note> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>driveName </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Default writable drive. This drive is used for creating a temporary
test directory structure for test cases. </p> <p>This value must be the character
of the drive, followed by a semicolon. The default value is <filepath>E:</filepath>.
The data within this parameter must be in the following format: </p> <p> <filepath>&lt;Drive
Letter&gt;:</filepath>  </p> <p><note> Modifying this value impacts the location
where the test cases create its test directory structure, and also the location
on which the tests performs their operations. </note></p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>formatDrive </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines a boolean value that indicates whether a drive is to be
formatted during a test. This must be a boolean value. By default, it is set
to <codeph>EFalse</codeph>. </p> <p><note> This value is used by all test
cases. </note></p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>baseDirName </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines the name of the parent test directory used to store the
test directory. The data within this parameter must be in the following format: </p> <p> <filepath>{Default,
driveName}\&lt; name of base directory&gt;\</filepath>  </p> <note><p> This value
is used by all test cases. Therefore, altering this value affects all test
cases. </p> </note></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>subDirName </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines the name of the actual test directory that is used for storing
test files. Each sub-directory created has the same name. For example, if
the name of the test directory is <filepath>dir</filepath>, the first directory
that will be created is <filepath>dir</filepath>, the second sub-directory
created is also called <b>dir</b>, and so on. </p> <p>Ensure that this name
does not contain a dot character (‘.’). </p> <note><p> This value is used
by all test cases. Therefore, altering this value affects all test cases. </p></note> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>fileBaseName </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines the name of the test file that is used for each test case.
Each file will be appended with an incrementing number. For example, if the
file base name is <filepath>file.txt</filepath> then the name of the first
file that will be created is <filepath>file1.txt</filepath>. Ensure that the
name of the file does contain a dot character (‘.’). You can use one of the
following formats: </p> <p> <filepath>&lt;name of file&gt;.&lt;extension name&gt;</filepath>  </p> <p>-
OR - </p> <p> <filepath> &lt;name of file&gt;</filepath>  </p> <note><p> This
value is used by all test cases. Therefore, altering this value affects all
test cases. </p></note> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>fileData </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines the content of each file created. </p> <note><p> This value
is used by all test cases. </p></note> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>dirTreeDepth </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines an integer number that represents the default number of
directories to be created in the base directory. </p> <p>This value is used
by all test cases. Therefore, altering this value affects all test cases,
and the test directory structure that each test case creates and uses. </p> <note><p> Based
on the actual size of the directory structure that is created, use an MMC
card of an appropriate size. </p></note> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>numOfFiles </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines an integer number that represents the default number of
files to create in each directory. </p> <p>This value is used by all test
cases. Therefore, altering this value affects all test cases, and the test
directory structure that each test case creates and uses. </p> <note><p> Based
on the actual size of the directory structure that is created, use an MMC
card of an appropriate size. </p></note> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>fileSize </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines an integer number that represents the default file size
(in bytes) of each file to create. By default, this is set to <b>128 Kb</b> or <b>1024
x128 bytes</b>. </p> <note><p> Modifying this value affects all tests within
this suite, as all test cases use this file size while creating files for
its test directory structure. Also note that the block sizes you are using
while manipulating the file size as RFile write API tests are also affected.
For example, if you are using a <codeph>blockSize</codeph> of 65536 bytes
for <codeph>XLBytes</codeph>, ensure that the file size set is equal to or
greater than 131072 bytes. As you cannot write 65536 bytes to a file that
has a set size of less than (blockSize + blockSize). </p></note> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>XSBytes </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines an integer number that represents a <codeph>blockSize</codeph> (in
bytes) that can either be read into a file or written to a file. Modifying
this value affects all RFile read test cases and all RFile write test cases. </p> <p> <b> XSBytes</b> represents
an extra small number of bytes. By default, this value is 16 bytes. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>SBytes </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines an integer number that represents a blockSize in bytes that
can either be read into a file or written to a file. Modifying this value
affects all RFile read test cases and all RFile write test cases. </p> <p> <b> SBytes</b> represents
a small number of bytes. By default, this value is 512 bytes. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>MBytes </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines an integer number that represents a blockSize in bytes that
can either be read into a file or written to a file. Modifying this value
affects all RFile read test cases and all RFile write test cases. </p> <p> <b> MBytes</b> represents
a medium number of bytes. By default, this value is 512 bytes. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>LBytes </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines an integer number that represents a blockSize in bytes that
can either be read into a file or written to a file. Modifying this value
affects all RFile read test cases and all RFile write test cases. </p> <p> <b>LBytes</b> represents
a large number of bytes. By default, this value is 32768 bytes. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>XLBytes </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines an integer number that represents a blockSize in bytes that
can either be read into a file or written to a file. Modifying this value
affects all RFile read test cases and all RFile write test cases. </p> <p> <b> XLBytes</b> represents
an extra large number of bytes. By default, this value is 65536 bytes. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody></concept>