<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-13BDBFA4-49FE-4D62-8B5F-BE3DF3ABAF3E" xml:lang="en"><title>Converting
a Certificate Store into Human-Readable Form</title><abstract><p>To view details of the certificates that comprise the certificate
store, it is necessary to convert the certificate store files in binary form
to human-readable form. </p><p>The following examples show how to use certapp
to convert a certificate store into human-readable form:</p><ul>
<li><p>This example converts a file certificate store (<codeph>cacerts.dat</codeph>)
into human-readable form (<codeph>cacerts.txt</codeph>). The input files are <codeph>cacerts.dat</codeph> and <codeph>cerclients.dat</codeph>,
which maps the application UIDs in the certificates to application description
strings.  </p><p><cmdname> &gt; certapp --bcertclients=certclients.dat --bfilecertstore=cacerts.dat
--out --hcertclients=certclients.txt --hfilecertstore=cacerts.txt</cmdname> </p></li>
<li><p>The following example shows how to convert the SWI certificate store
file into human-readable form for a device which also has a writable data
file (<codeph>writable.dat</codeph>) installed. </p><p><cmdname>&gt; certapp
--bcertclients=certclients.dat --bswicertstore=swicertstore.dat --bswicertstore=writable.dat
--out --hcertclients=certclients.txt --hswicertstore=swicertstore.txt</cmdname> </p><p>Specify
the SWI certificate store files in ascending priority order, that is, specify
the base SWI certificate store file first and then the writable SWI certificate
store file. The tool automatically processes the writable SWI certificate
store file before the base SWI certificate store file. </p></li>
</ul><p><b>Notes:</b></p><ul>
<li><p>Along with the certificate store file, separate files are also created
for the certificates of the store. The certificate file types depend on the
output file type. For example, if the output file is <codeph>certclients.txt</codeph>,
x509 certificates are dumped in files with names like <codeph>certclients_certN.der</codeph>,
where N is the entry number. If you specify the <codeph>--pemout</codeph> command-line
option, then the extension of the certificate file is <codeph>.pem</codeph>.
If the certificate type is not <codeph>EX509Certificate</codeph>, then the
extension is <codeph>.dat</codeph>. </p></li>
<li><p>For details of the formats followed by the various certificate store
files, see <xref href="GUID-B1B3C5E6-9F38-5A55-A30E-4C7591B446CC.dita">Certificate
Store Human-Readable File Formats</xref>. </p></li>
</ul></abstract><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><related-links>
<link href="GUID-7C96B363-7891-50D3-A40F-92B9CBC4624C.dita"><linktext>Using certapp</linktext>
</link>
</related-links></task>