<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-CF0D81FC-B28C-5AB1-BF99-A1247E31ACBF" xml:lang="en"><title>Creating
Swicertstore.dat File</title><shortdesc>During installation of a native software SWI checks the certificates
in the <filepath>swicertstore.dat</filepath> file against the certificates
with which the SIS files are signed to assure if the native software being
installed is from a trusted source. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context><p>Swicertstore tool requires a text file containing the certificate
details to create a <filepath>swicertstore.dat</filepath> file. For more information
about the input file see, <xref href="GUID-0E231D3E-D21F-5527-8FA5-5CF19A42B5B7.dita">Swicertstore
Tool Input File Reference</xref>. </p> </context>
<steps id="GUID-77BA2D7F-D21C-5C95-A98B-DEC3B246DBFD">
<step id="GUID-CA2E96B1-9244-58AF-A266-54223EF0A79A"><cmd>Create certificate
files and keys using the <xref href="GUID-D45A4AE9-4169-4466-B02B-629B15C3E9AA.dita">Makekeys</xref> tool. </cmd>
</step>
<step id="GUID-D7D58601-938E-5588-B522-814CA37A85D6"><cmd/>
<info>Launch the emulator using <filepath>epoc.exe</filepath>. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-AEE0962A-13E0-5DDE-8E74-4CE62D285466"><cmd/>
<info>Launch EShell within the emulator and run <codeph>&gt;swicertstoretool
c:\inputfile c:\outputfile c:\logfile</codeph>. </info>
<info>Here: </info>
<info><ul>
<li><p> <codeph>inputfile</codeph> is the name of the text file. </p></li>
<li><p><codeph>outputfile</codeph> is the name of the file created by the
tool, that is, <filepath>swicertstore.dat</filepath> file. </p></li>
<li><p><codeph>outputfile</codeph> is the name of the file created by the
tool, that is, <filepath>swicertstore.dat</filepath> file. </p></li>
</ul></info>
<info> Note: This command must be run in the same directory where the text
file is placed. The output file and log file are created or overwritten if
required. </info>
</step>
</steps>
<result><p> <filepath> Swicertstore.dat</filepath> file is created and stored
in two places: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-163A806B-ED33-5060-9413-573D61039FF6"><p>On the ROM drive - <codeph>z:\resource\swicertstore.dat</codeph>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-1B153CEC-F61F-5CDD-A7C3-B81169DE2A6C"><p>On the writable swicertstore <codeph>$:\resource\swicertstore.dat</codeph> (where
$ is the system drive). </p> </li>
</ul> </result>
</taskbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-0E231D3E-D21F-5527-8FA5-5CF19A42B5B7.dita"><linktext>Swicertstore
Tool Reference</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-4BFEDD79-9502-526A-BA7B-97550A6F0601.dita"><linktext>Platform
Security</linktext></link>
</related-links></task>