<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-8D4B8ABF-8ADD-5142-A966-EBD913958B0E"><title>What Are Proactive Commands</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This section describes the proactive commands and the functions they provide to the client applications. </p> <p>Proactive commands are used by the Integrated Circuit Card (ICC) to instruct the phone to do various tasks. A proactive command is always associated with a proactive command number. A response to every proactive command is returned as a terminal response with the same proactive command number. </p> <section id="GUID-F8E1B509-05AF-5CF9-93B9-1BE69BF35142"><title>Common SAT functions</title> <p>The proactive commands allow the client applications to: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-5EBB266B-E6AE-57A5-A5F8-9219206D7988"><p>Display text or icon to the user. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-B6CB6149-019D-5F21-8EFA-C7287DF8E475"><p>Create a menu and provide a list of options. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-0F210346-235D-5707-9B67-43D5FEBAA485"><p>Get one or more characters from the user. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-F355CCA6-A297-5BD9-B571-4B51FD0E1F5A"><p>Instruct the device to play tone as a notification. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-B9579F6D-85FF-53F1-A6FD-9C3917CBEF63"><p>Request the telephony system plug-ins to send data to the network as a SMS message, supplementary service commands, unstructured service data and DTMF tones. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-085F7742-C0CA-50BD-80C7-D70113CDCD58"><p>Clients can implement power management of the ICC. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-18F32EE9-5061-5E83-A4D0-8B9FF9D2A66D"><p>Clients can access the information from the ICC. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-B4F75F02-D896-5A49-9002-D116DE039E55"><p>Request the telephony system to create and close channels for the client applications. </p> </li> </ul> </section> </conbody></concept>