<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-21909CF6-B810-599A-A486-01BA1BF21F35" xml:lang="en"><title>Introduction</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The TextMTM is an example MTM project, which shows many aspects of dealing
with the Messaging APIs. Developers can use it as a basis for experimenting
with the MTM architecture, and for studying the MTM interfaces. </p>
<p>Rather than implementing a real message transport protocol, the TextMTM
simulates this by treating the local file system as a remote mail server.
The TextMTM allows a user to create a service representing a folder in the
file system. The service then contains entries for each folder and file under
that folder, so functioning as a mirror of the folder contents. </p>
<p>The UI MTM component allows users to get messages from the "remote" server,
to edit the contents of a text message, and to copy messages back to a TextMTM
service. Moving and deleting messages is also allowed. </p>
<section id="GUID-147AEBF3-2F87-5AA1-AC42-32EEA1FF8315"><title>Download</title> <p>Click
on the following link to download the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-419758e4-b663-48d3-bf21-d9c4bb00da23.zip" scope="external">TextMTM.zip </xref>  </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-32E4981D-BBEA-570F-9770-B5E9F5E15C4A"><title>TextMTM projects</title> <p>The
TextMTM is made up of a number of components, and so the source has a number
of projects. </p> <p>The following project is a utility project, used for
deploying the MTM. </p> <table id="GUID-C760358C-B3D1-54DF-B11D-D029E3C1F3BA">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Project</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <b>Description</b>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <filepath>txin</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Utility application for MTM installation </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>The following projects supply the source for the MTM. </p> <table id="GUID-9A6B5470-F988-5100-BD3F-7A2074DE2470">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Project</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <b>Description</b>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <filepath>txtc</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Client-side MTM implementation. This defines the methods required
for a <codeph>CBaseMtm</codeph> -derived class. It is instantiated by a client
application to perform MTM-specific tasks. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <filepath>txti</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>UI Data MTM implementation. This presents the messaging application
with useful information, without the need for actually fully loading all the
DLLs necessary to handle text messages. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <filepath>txts</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Server-side MTM implementation. This provides all the functionality
to handle messages on the server side, and supports moving, copying, deleting,
and creating of entries. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <filepath>txtu</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>User Interface MTM implementation. This is loaded when the user
decides to actually perform some MTM-specific task, such as editing a message. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <filepath>txut</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>A small utilities DLL where code resides that has to be shared between
the MTM implementations. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
</conbody></concept>