<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-CAD36EEF-42CF-52AE-A619-64F988FF342D" xml:lang="en"><title>Legal
Notices</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This page provides copyright and acknowledgement information. </p>
<section id="GUID-AF837579-4E73-45CC-AB57-600CF171BB22"><title>Copyright</title> <p>Copyright © 2009 Nokia Corporation and/or
its subsidiary(-ies). All rights reserved. This component and the accompanying
materials are made available under the terms of "Eclipse Public License v1.0"
which accompanies this distribution, and is available at the URL <xref href="http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html.dita">http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html</xref>. </p> <p>Initial Contributors: </p> <p>Nokia Corporation - initial contribution </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-F0030E9A-8035-5EDF-A80E-52418F88F3CC"><title>Trademarks</title> <p>These
trademarks, and others, are acknowledged. Conventional abbreviations of these
trademarks are used throughout this documentation. </p> <p>Nokia and Nokia
Connecting People are registered trademarks of Nokia Corporation. </p> <p>S60
and logo is a trademark of Nokia Corporation. </p> <p>Symbian OS is a trademark
of Nokia Corporation. </p> <p>ARM and Thumb are registered trademarks of ARM
Limited. </p> <p>Java and all Java-based marks are trademarks or registered
trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc. </p> <p>Microsoft®, Microsoft® Windows®,
Microsoft® Visual C++®, Microsoft® Visual Studio® are registered trademarks
of Microsoft Corporation. </p> <p>OpenGL® ES is a registered trademark of
Silicon Graphics, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries worldwide.
The Symbian Foundation is independent of Silicon Graphics, Inc. </p> <p>Khronos,
OpenVG and OpenMAX are trademarks of the Khronos Group Inc. </p> <p>The Bluetooth
word mark and logos are owned by the Bluetooth SIG, Inc. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>