<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-EACA05F0-7291-535C-82BC-16DF3AAA417E" xml:lang="en"><title>Interface
To DBMS databases overview</title><shortdesc>Interfaces for opening databases, defining database schemas, and
performing transactions.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-B4935AC9-E5B8-45C9-837B-7F7AA5FB1C08"><title>Purpose</title> <p>Defines interfaces for opening databases,
defining database schemas, and performing transactions.</p> </section>
<section id="GUID-AC50286B-7FF6-4308-8273-78338FBCA510"><title>Description</title> <p>The API has three key concepts: abstract
database base class, store database, and named database. </p> <p><b>Abstract
database base class</b> </p> <p>This abstract database base class defines
generic functionality of a database. In particular, it provides supports for
defining the database schema (tables and indexes), and performing transactions.</p> <p>Modifying
data contained in the database is done through rowsets opened on the database,
as defined in the DBMS Rowsets API. </p> <p>The base class is <xref href="GUID-E11B1981-CA78-3660-AE09-AD3B4D453733.dita"><apiname>RDbDatabase</apiname></xref>.
A class derives from this to define a particular type of database. </p> <p><b>Store
database</b> </p> <p>The store database implements the abstract database base
to provide a client-side (used by a single client thread) database. Databases
are stored in permanent file stores.</p> <p>The store database class is <xref href="GUID-F4A68645-2265-307F-B951-8295827E000B.dita"><apiname>RDbStoreDatabase</apiname></xref>.</p> <p><b>Named
database</b> </p> <p>Named databases allow simultaneous read/write access
by multiple clients through a DBMS server session created using the DBMS Sharing
Databases API. The default data storage method is as a store database.</p> <p>The
named database class is <xref href="GUID-6433D7F9-B4C7-39DA-BEF4-5EA22B8478A2.dita"><apiname>RDbNamedDatabase</apiname></xref>.</p> </section>
<section id="GUID-AE4CFA6E-A8F3-4B46-A19C-7F1088A03363"><title>See also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-12CB6E0E-69CD-51A6-8966-3621CB26E1CD.dita">DBMS
rowsets overview</xref> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-C61B979A-921A-5756-8D7E-691C3DDD3437.dita">DBMS
sharing databases overview</xref> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-21CF1D5F-44C5-5407-B3C9-8BC103C97079.dita">File
stores overview</xref> </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>