<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-676D1493-0035-4AD3-A0E5-A207B25809E4" xml:lang="en"><title>Time
Zone Services Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-30F76544-4824-4979-93A6-CC7F09818443">       <title>Purpose</title><p>Interfaces
within Time Zone Services are used to enable client applications to make updates
to system TZ data, receive notification of time changes, and manage user-defined
TZ data. Conversion services enable a client to convert time between Universal
Time Coordinated and any other time.  </p></section>
<section id="GUID-8C787174-5ABD-4CE5-A205-986873AA5F00"><title>Key concepts/terms</title>The following terms are used throughout
Time Zone Services documentation:<p><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>P&amp;S</dt>
<dd><p>Publish and Subscribe. </p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>PKG</dt>
<dd><p>Package File Format, which allows easy installation of software. </p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>SIS</dt>
<dd><p>Symbian installation file. A collection of executables and/or data
files packaged in a form suitable so that the Software Installer can install
them onto a device.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>SWI </dt>
<dd><p>Software Installer.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>System TZ data </dt>
<dd><p>Refers to the time zone database found in the TZ Server component and
the TZ localization resources found in the TZ Localization component.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>TZID</dt>
<dd><p>Refers to the time zone database found in the TZ Server component and
the TZ localization resources found in the TZ Localization component.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>TZ rules data</dt>
<dd><p>Refers to the TZ rules found in the TZ database, the TZ rules that
define the current/system TZ and the user-defined TZ rules.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>User-defined TZ data</dt>
<dd><p>The TZ rules and TZ names (city name, region name and long/short standard
time name and long/short daylight time names). User-defined TZ data may be
added by the user of the device. </p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>UTC </dt>
<dd><p>Universal Time Coordinated.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p></section>
<section id="GUID-4E5DB06A-4729-4008-BB03-9C3A27C4DE96"><title>Architectural relationships</title><p>Alarm Server and Calendar
Server components depend on the latest TZ rules information. When notified
of changes to TZ rules data these components update their TZ-dependent data.
TZ conversion rules are used to convert between UTC and a time in the past,
present or future, for any time zone.</p><p>Time zone conversion allows you
to set the device time zone and to convert time between UTC and any time,
past, present or future, for any time zone, as long as a rule exists for the
conversion.  </p></section>
<section id="GUID-5C98F76D-C181-4D43-8784-1306830E4D7D"><title>Time Zone Services interfaces </title><p>The following classes
form the main interface to Time Zone Services:</p><table id="GUID-F78AECCB-AEDE-4054-929C-DC756DA901AC">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.58*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.42*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><p>Interface</p></entry>
<entry valign="top"><p>Description</p></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>CTzUserData</codeph></p></entry>
<entry><p>Allows a client to manage user-defined time zones.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>CTzUserNames</codeph></p></entry>
<entry><p>Contains the names for a user-defined time zone.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>CTzRules</codeph></p></entry>
<entry><p>Encapsulates a collection of time zone rules</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>CTzId</codeph></p></entry>
<entry><p>Contains a time zone identifier.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>RTz</codeph></p></entry>
<entry><p>Converts between UTC time and local time, and sets the current local
time zone.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>CTzConverter</codeph></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides client-side caching for conversions in the local time zone.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><p>The following interfaces are also used: </p><ul>
<li><p>SWI service - see System TZ Data Update </p></li>
<li><p>Resource files - see User-defined TZ Data </p></li>
<li><p>Publish and Subscribe - see TZ Data Change Notification </p></li>
</ul><p><b>System TZ data update</b></p><p>The system TZ data can be updated
at run-time. The installation mechanism uses the standard SWI service to install
a SIS file containing the updated TZ data onto a device.</p><p>Once the system
TZ data has been updated using the SIS file, the device will automatically
make use of the updated data. This includes updating any cached data managed
by Symbian platform components and notifying all registered clients of the
system TZ data change.</p><p/><p><b>User-defined TZ data</b></p><p><codeph>CTzUserData</codeph> provides
functions to create, read, update or delete user-defined TZ data. The API
also allows the TZIDs for all existing user-defined TZ data to be determined.
  </p><p><codeph>CTzUserNames</codeph> is used to contain the names for user-defined
time zones. These include long/short standard time names, long/short daylight
time names, city name and region name.</p><p>TZID is a time zone identifier
contained in the <codeph>CTzId</codeph> class. There are two components to
a TZID: a numeric identifier and a name identifier. </p><p><b>TZ data change
notification</b></p><p>The Time Zone Services APIs support several Publish
and Subscribe (P&amp;S) properties, some of which are described below. Clients
can attach and subscribe to these properties to allow them to be notified
of TZ data changes.</p><p> The Calendar uses the callback API <codeph>MCalChangeCallBack2</codeph> for
asynchronous change notification.</p><ul>
<li><p><b>Publish and Subscribe</b> - The <codeph>NTzUpdate</codeph> namespace
contains a property category and property keys. The property key <codeph>ETzRulesChange</codeph> is
used to inform clients of changes to:</p><ul>
<li><p>the system TZ database </p></li>
<li><p>current and system TZ rules </p></li>
<li><p>user-defined rules.</p></li>
</ul><p>The property key <codeph>ETzNamesChange</codeph> is responsible for
changes to the localized system TZ names and non-localized user-defined TZ
names. </p> </li>
<li><p><b>Alarm Server client</b> - The Alarm Server supports fixed UTC time
and floating local time to express the expiry time of an alarm. The TZ Server
then recalculates and sets the current UTC offset.</p><p>See <xref href="GUID-9BE3DEBE-A1CE-5A2F-9746-1E6F2B5B050E.dita">System
Time and Locale Changes</xref>. </p></li>
<li><p><b>Calendar client</b> - The Calendar API allows a client to be notified
of changes to Calendar entries.</p><p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-3987D040-27F7-5226-96AC-D578ECA4C0A2.dita">Callback
Interfaces</xref>.</p></li>
</ul></section>
<section id="GUID-5102801C-87DC-4AC1-8733-F216C043A36F"><title>See also</title><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-F0C71D6E-CAF1-49CC-A697-FC1A810DF1D5.dita">Time zone services
tutorials</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-A0E21681-F1EF-4E79-965A-040AC7D72A01.dita">Time Zone Conversion
Overview</xref></p></li>
</ul></section>
</conbody></concept>