<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-B0DE466F-1598-4E96-BB0C-2CCE9AE31E1C" xml:lang="en"><title>SysLibs
Test Technology Area Scope</title><shortdesc>The SysLibs test technology area scope provides an overview about
the test technology area, its coverage, how to set up the test environment,
and how to interpret test results.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section>       <title>Components under test</title>       <p>The SysLibs
subsystem is a collection of low-level components that are widely used by
other subsystems of the Symbian platform. The SysLibs test suite tests the <xref href="GUID-324107D1-6E0B-56DD-BDC0-7296F688A9CF.dita">ECom</xref> component. </p> 
   </section>
<section><title> Test Scope</title> <p><b>Published API testing</b> </p> <p>This
technology area provides a number of test suites to test published APIs; that
is APIs that Symbian identify as PublishedAll and are documented in the Symbian
platform Library. These test suites can be used as a regression test suite
and also as part of a compatibility testing program. </p><p><b>Test omissions</b> </p> <p>The
ECom test product tests only one plug-in implemented by Symbian platform as
example plug-in. </p> </section>
<section><title>Support</title><p>For support issues related to this Test
Suite description and issues to running the tests, test pass rates, and potential
defects, contact Symbian or your SDK provider. In most instances this will
be either through the Symbian technical consulting teams, the SDK provider
forums or via the developer area of <xref href="http://symbian.org/" scope="external">Symbian</xref> website. </p></section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-9C1B5308-D710-4CEC-B00B-3502B5E78CB3.dita"><linktext>SysLibs Test
Suite Tutorials</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-7F091034-43FE-40B1-AAE2-C8AD010F4C1C.dita"><linktext>SysLibs Test
Suite Details</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-C45DA7A0-E41B-4393-BE1A-CF1DF35566D1.dita"><linktext>SysLibs Test
Suite Overview</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>