<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-9DE1CE5D-F148-5A7E-908A-DDD57A32C629"><title>Camera API</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This document gives you more information about the Camera API. </p> <section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The clients can use the Camera API to access the camera on a phone. This includes configuring the camera, running viewfinder and capturing still images and video. </p> <p> <b> Note:</b> The functionality that can be obtained through the API is camera hardware dependent. The API includes functions that you should call to check if functionality is available before using it. </p> <p><b>Required Background</b> </p> <p>The camera client is a component of the Multimedia subsystem. </p> <p><b>Introduction</b> </p> <p>Ecam is an API which allows an application to access and control any camera hardware which is attached to the device. The API provides functions to query the status of the camera, adjust camera settings, and capture still images and video. </p> </section> <section><title>Using Camera</title> <p>The camera can be used for: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-A330317B-BF54-59E9-BF96-8E6822AEF8AA"><p>Capturing still images </p> </li> <li id="GUID-1AADB8FE-7372-5189-8EBD-6CC84FAAF6D6"><p>Capturing video </p> </li> </ul> <p><b>What's Next?</b> </p> <p>The following tasks will be covered in this tutorial series: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-2E46B521-F169-5DC5-A424-2422DD0DF5BA"><p><xref href="GUID-9014ED9B-B0A0-5C95-9C5B-7D2F658C757F.dita">Accessing and Power Control of Camera </xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-AA4B4913-7F22-5DEE-90CF-5D4666E4A831"><p><xref href="GUID-DA26D246-D74A-529F-9F81-11B45669103F.dita">Capturing Image</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-4F278DFE-49AE-549A-BB0E-445C8B648134"><p><xref href="GUID-F690DAC8-688B-5BD7-88DF-0CB3D4ACDCFF.dita">Capturing Video</xref>  </p> </li> </ul> </section> </conbody></concept>