<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-EC33FF66-F15E-5316-8828-C6CFD57DB9E5"><title>Symbian SQL Tracing Guide</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This document discusses how to enable Symbian SQL tracing </p> <section><title>How to enable Symbian SQL tracing</title> <p>You can enable SQL tracing in two steps. </p> <ul><li id="GUID-1AB89A3E-6ACD-543D-8AA9-B9034829E947"><p>Enable the executable for trace. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-DF51C397-6531-5CAF-A087-257E2FB06E8E"><p>Enable the trace type. </p> </li> </ul> <p><b>Enabling the executable for trace</b> </p> <p>The three sub-components of the Symbian SQL library executable are the database client, the database server and the SQLite static library with these .mmp files: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-A2B6B7EF-509F-52C7-A55C-20CAE7766995"><p>sqldb.mmp </p> </li> <li id="GUID-2973082E-45F0-5829-B0E3-EA39BA8B0F06"><p>sqlsrv.mmp </p> </li> <li id="GUID-20750D91-BA05-5623-9E54-E02BBFDE1EE4"><p>sqlite.mmp </p> </li> </ul> <p>In each of these files look for the macro <codeph>SYMBIAN_INCLUDE_EXECUTABLE_TRACE</codeph> and uncomment it. </p> <p><b>Enabling the trace type</b> </p> <p>SQL traces are of three types: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-2F30AEB6-0C62-52F6-958F-892A5C0DDEA5"><p>Function entry and exit traces: these traces generate timestamps indicating how long a function took to execute and what its argument was. Where the argument is an SQL statement, these traces are useful for identifying inefficient use of SQL. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-7D1B8AF5-F525-5A4A-9C2C-465752DC73D8"><p>Error traces: these trace function leaves and panics in the client and server and are useful for debugging database applications. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-1271AC2F-FEBA-579E-B990-B0EE1272B17C"><p>Key event traces: these traces supply data about key events which are relevant to database implementation: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-E2CB61F2-5F38-54AE-B27D-A4FBC5BE1D36"><p>IPC calls sent to and serviced by the SQL server. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-45B84E0B-429D-5FCA-8144-DF807EC99545"><p>Startup and close of the SQL server. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-89FE8F63-FDE0-5D99-B8EA-21895FBDA866"><p>The number of full table scans and sort operations performed by an <xref href="GUID-0176BF07-DF94-3259-8F90-DE030E35CE9A.dita"><apiname>RSqlStatement</apiname></xref> object. </p> </li> </ul> </li> </ul> <p>Traces of each type can be enabled independently. The file UTraceSql.h defines the macros </p> <ul><li id="GUID-A208CA4B-DB3C-5C02-A356-CBF4560E81A5"><p> <codeph>SYMBIAN_TRACE_SQL_FUNC</codeph> to enable function entry and exit traces, </p> </li> <li id="GUID-4B10F95F-6A9D-5F28-8213-C006C6220A91"><p> <codeph> SYMBIAN_TRACE_SQL_ERR</codeph> to enable error traces, and </p> </li> <li id="GUID-520483F9-698B-55DF-9D47-1AB969D2ECAC"><p> <codeph>SYMBIAN_TRACE_SQL_EVENTS</codeph> to enable key events. </p> </li> </ul> <p>To enable tracing you uncomment the macro for the type of tracing required. </p> </section> <section><title>See Also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-321F406B-2C77-5F2B-9FDA-F25726188CE2.dita">Using Symbian SQL Trace Data Guide</xref>  </p> </section> </conbody></concept>