<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-2CE8544C-470C-5693-8ED6-27B01DD9548B" xml:lang="en"><title>How
to parse a pathname</title><shortdesc>This topic describes how to parse a path name for
the individual components</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-ACFF7E09-21DC-46BE-A79E-811CD22C0B86"><title>Retrieving individual components</title> <p>The following
code fragment shows how the individual components are extracted using the <codeph>TParseBase</codeph> functions:</p> <codeblock id="GUID-B1605907-E17B-57F6-B9BB-8D977E02376A" xml:space="preserve">_LIT(KPath,"c:\\wrd\\meeting.wrd");
...
TParse p;
p.Set(KPath,NULL,NULL);
p.Name();       // gives "meeting"
p.NameAndExt(); // gives "meeting.wrd"
...</codeblock> </section>
<section id="GUID-CC0F6F19-B61F-43BE-88F4-169A06BCA01C"><title>Component masking</title> <p><codeph>TParse</codeph> can be
used to select components from different file and path specifications. The <codeph>Set()</codeph> function
takes three arguments. They are each parsed into four components: drive, path,
filename and extension.</p> <p>The example below sets up the <codeph>TParse</codeph> object
so that it can be used to yield useful information.</p> <codeblock id="GUID-14D77BE2-C607-5018-A9B5-E7E4A54FB0F1" xml:space="preserve">_LIT(KSpec,"A:file1");
_LIT(KRelated,"C:\\path1\\related.xxx");
TParse fp;
fp.Set(KSpec,&amp;KRelated,NULL);</codeblock> <table id="GUID-31958460-AEB8-5876-806B-08982A62FE97">
<tgroup cols="5"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><colspec colname="col3"/><colspec colname="col4"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>drive</p> </entry>
<entry><p>path</p> </entry>
<entry><p>filename</p> </entry>
<entry><p>extension</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>file specification</p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>A:</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry/>
<entry><p><filepath>file1</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry/>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>related name</p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>C:</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>\path1\</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>related</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>.xxx</filepath> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>default name</p> </entry>
<entry/>
<entry/>
<entry/>
<entry/>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>result</p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>A:</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>\path1\</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>file1</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>.xxx</filepath> </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>The resulting <codeph>fp.fullname</codeph> will be <codeph>A:\path1\file1.xxx.</codeph> All
the components that are specified in the file specification (drive and filename)
are put into the result; any missing components (path and extension) are taken
from the related file specification which has next order of precedence; nothing
is specified in the default.</p> <p>The second example shows how wildcards
are allowed in the filename and extension.</p> <codeblock id="GUID-17D1D396-FC67-5097-9165-B159F549BFC1" xml:space="preserve">    TParse fp;
    _LIT(KSpec,"A:file1");
    _LIT(KDefault,"C:\\path1\\*.*");
    fp.Set(KSpec,NULL,&amp;KDefault);</codeblock> <table id="GUID-9CEADC99-16FE-50FD-B401-AB595B91D48C">
<tgroup cols="5"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><colspec colname="col3"/><colspec colname="col4"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>drive</p> </entry>
<entry><p>path</p> </entry>
<entry><p>filename</p> </entry>
<entry><p>extension</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>file specification</p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>A:</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry/>
<entry><p><filepath>file1</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry/>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>related filename</p> </entry>
<entry/>
<entry/>
<entry/>
<entry/>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>default filename</p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>C:</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>\path1\</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>*</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>.*</filepath> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>result</p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>A:</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>\path1\</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>file1</filepath> </p> </entry>
<entry><p><filepath>.*</filepath> </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>The resulting <codeph>fp.fullname</codeph> will be <codeph>A:\path1\file1.*</codeph> </p> <p><b>Parsing with reference to the session default directory</b> </p> <p><codeph>TParse</codeph> operations
occur without reference to the file server. Two <codeph>RFs::Parse()</codeph> functions
perform a <codeph>TParse::Set()</codeph> using the session path as the <codeph>aDefault</codeph> argument :
one of these variants specifies an <codeph>aRelated</codeph>, the other does
not. Use these <codeph>RFs::Parse()</codeph> functions to parse filenames
with reference to the session path.</p> </section>
<section id="GUID-A63EEB1D-B5D7-4225-8EF3-328EF25F5C5B"><title>Wildcard characters</title> <p>The <codeph>?</codeph> and <codeph>*</codeph> wildcard
characters are supported to indicate a single character, and any sequence
of characters. Both wildcard characters can be used any number of times in
any part of any component of the file specification, except the drive. Although
there is no intention that these will ever change, they are defined as the
constants <codeph>KMatchOne</codeph> and <codeph>KMatchAny</codeph>.</p> </section>
<section id="GUID-50525BCE-995E-4265-B821-4BA6FC704019"><title>Illegal paths</title> <p>The following restrictions apply
to path components. If any are violated, <codeph>TParse</codeph> will return <codeph>KErrBadName</codeph>: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-A1BF9F97-F77C-54D1-AF22-EDB4E06699B6"><p>a path component which
is followed by a trailing backslash must also be preceded by a backslash.
For example, the following code will return an error because <filepath>DIR\</filepath> is
neither a directory nor a file.</p> </li>
</ul> <codeblock id="GUID-C7988B04-ECA0-5BED-B90E-2415C66F141B" xml:space="preserve">_LIT(KText,"DIR\\");
...
TInt r=parse.Set(KText,NULL,NULL);</codeblock> <ul>
<li id="GUID-8B2C6A24-A7AD-5210-8B33-F4E4C328BA57"><p>the length of any component
(and the total path length) must not exceed 256 characters</p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A10B9251-BF06-5FB3-A74F-E2E9F2B9A0EE"><p>spaces between the drive
and the first directory in the path are illegal, although there may be spaces
between other path components, for instance between the path or drive and
filename, or within path components. The following code will return an error:</p> </li>
</ul> <codeblock id="GUID-7036B814-8A5F-549F-B580-13383E424B20" xml:space="preserve">_LIT(KBadText,"C: \\DIR\\");
...
r=parse.Set(KBadText,NULL,NULL);</codeblock> <ul>
<li id="GUID-83462E03-77BF-5692-90AF-729ACE4B7C8E"><p>when using <codeph>TParse::SetNoWild()</codeph> no
wildcard character may be present in the filename or extension.</p> </li>
</ul> </section>
</conbody></concept>