<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-4F703F85-080F-5B77-B94D-5449764828F3" xml:lang="en"><title>SMTP
MTM Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This section provides an overview of the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
(SMTP) MTM. </p>
<section><title>Purpose</title> <p>Provides APIs for sending of Internet emails. </p> </section>
<section><title>Architectural relationships</title> <p>The Messaging Middleware
architecture defines a framework in which modules (MTMs) can be implemented
that provide support for particular messaging protocols. A client MTM provides
the API for application engines to use the protocol. The SMTP API provides
the client MTM API, plus supporting classes for SMTP, see <xref href="GUID-9BB849A2-8F69-580D-8A52-C7002D919521.dita">Email
Overview</xref>. </p> </section>
<section><title>Description</title> <p>The API has four key concepts: SMTP
Client MTM, SMTP service settings, progress information, and email message
entry information. </p> <p><b>SMTP Client MTM</b> </p> <p>The SMTP Client
MTM provides an SMTP-specific operation, to enable automatic sending of waiting
messages either immediately or whenever a dial-up connection is made. Some
generic messaging operations, such as receiving messages, are not supported
by the MTM. </p> <p>The SMTP Client MTM class is <xref href="GUID-41102B49-38D8-3B4F-A3C2-74BE40929C3E.dita"><apiname>CSmtpClientMtm</apiname></xref>.
Most of the functions in this class are implementations of the virtual functions
defined by the <xref href="GUID-177AF50B-14EF-3C45-AE22-1FEE5678261D.dita"><apiname>CBaseMtm</apiname></xref> base class. The SMTP Client MTM
implements the standard Client MTM APIs including the functions required to
allow clients of SendAs to create emails. </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-B481763A-7F7E-5CEF-A934-7D74A491406F"><p>Commits cached changes
to the current message context to the storage controlled by the Message Server. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A19D1C55-9751-59A5-B2CE-CFCE8CD0A78D"><p>Loads the cache with
the message data for the current context </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7E3ECAE0-FAF4-5C53-8EF0-207439AC7975"><p>Stores and loads the
current service settings from the object's cache into the central repository
for the current entry. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-80B5A48F-8A5C-5014-9C4C-275481073EDD"><p>Creates a reply or forward
message to the current message context. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-E4D7FD41-6678-592F-9675-F078E3ED0876"><p>Searches the specified
message parts for the plain text. </p> </li>
</ul> <p><b>SMTP service settings</b> </p> <p>Settings for SMTP connections
are stored in the message store (<codeph>CMsvStore</codeph>) for the SMTP
service entry. Settings include server address and email address. Encapsulation
of service settings is provided by the <xref href="GUID-DFE18962-0022-3833-A8F0-6E4C969177C0.dita"><apiname>CImSmtpSettings</apiname></xref> class. </p> <p><b>Progress
information</b> </p> <p>The progress information can be obtained for messaging
operations. For SMTP operations, progress information includes such things
as connection state and number of messages sent. Progress information is provided
by <xref href="GUID-8E9F8DAC-9796-3BC3-9FE0-BB818C8FB87F.dita"><apiname>TSmtpProgress</apiname></xref>. </p> <p><b>Email message entry information</b> </p> <p>Protocol-specific
data for a message is stored in fields in its index entry. A class <xref href="GUID-96CB1F06-0642-3313-8E18-1F68CBE26CCB.dita"><apiname>TMsvEmailEntry</apiname></xref> is
provided to read these fields for e-mail protocols (including SMTP). </p> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-8B843382-D27A-5E36-8F60-304903F3AA41.dita"><linktext>Message Type
Module</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-931F2B0C-0F7D-5819-83AF-8EC2C8988538.dita"><linktext>Email Settings</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-8832AED4-6B9F-5B35-8211-0C6661CD6DCA.dita"><linktext>Email Tutorials</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-E56E21A9-B545-5217-A877-E64D30275157.dita"><linktext>Using the
Policy Evaluator Plug-in</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>