<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-75A70663-4DF2-4055-BF3E-8D9D8D0FEFB3" xml:lang="en"><title>Discarding
soft notifications</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The application that launched a soft notification can discard it without
user intervention when the notification becomes obsolete. A soft notification
should remain pending until the user has responded to it, or started using
the corresponding application so that in effect the notification becomes obsolete.
In that case, the application can discard the notification even though the
user may not have actually seen it.</p>
<p>When the user reacts to a soft notification by pressing the left softkey
(for example Read), or selects one item of a grouped soft notification, the
item becomes interpreted as obsolete, and will not reappear. If a soft notification
contained more than one item, the other ones remain pending and reappear when
the user returns to the home screen.</p>
<p>The user can dismiss the notification by pressing the right softkey, labeled
Exit. After this, the notification does not reappear until new events cause
a new notification to be created. In case of a grouped soft notification,
all items it contains are discarded.</p>
<p>Please note that discarding a soft notification does not mean that the
received content is lost.</p>
</conbody></concept>