<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-7D727FC9-EF32-49FD-B72E-E1E00315206E" xml:lang="en"><title>Optional
RAM Allocation</title><shortdesc>This section explains about optional RAM allocation. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Optional RAM is commonly used by an application to store data in a cache
or keep data in a temporary buffer to improve the performance of the application.
Optional RAM is allocated based on the priority assigned to the applications. </p>
<p>Applications can request for optional RAM when additional RAM is required
to improve the performance, but the application can still execute the tasks
without the optional RAM allocation.</p>
<p>The main purpose of optional RAM is: <ul>
<li><p>An application can safely allocate a large amount of optional RAM without
the risk of affecting other applications.</p></li>
<li><p>An application is able to release the optional RAM whenever it is needed
for other applications without getting closed. As the application can still
run without the optional RAM in limited performance mode.</p></li>
</ul></p>
<p>In order to allow OOM Monitor to release optionally allocated RAM, an application
must provide an OOM plug-in. For more information on OOM plug-ins, refer to <xref href="GUID-DB6F586B-932A-4BDC-BA48-79C7D3FD9931.dita">OOM Plug-ins</xref></p>
</conbody></concept>