<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-67D0F837-65EE-54FE-B8D6-E5226CB9D8C9-GENID-1-12-1-27-1-1-4-1-1-3-1"><title>Feature Management Overview</title><shortdesc>This section gives an overview of feature management, what it does, how it works, how to use it and links to relevant links. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><section id="GUID-EC3021C2-C858-571B-A4B3-697CCB43CAFF-GENID-1-12-1-27-1-1-4-1-1-3-1-3-1"><title>Purpose</title> <p>A feature is a piece of functionality that is shipped with the device, but which can be disabled or enabled. </p> <p>Feature management is used to manage the enabling and disabling of these features and associated activities for example to provide a means of allowing the system to know if a feature is enabled or not. </p> </section> <section id="GUID-E3F13137-DDF7-5F4B-8571-33EB30AE15FD-GENID-1-12-1-27-1-1-4-1-1-3-1-3-2"><title>Architecture</title> <p>The feature management system consists of a server and two dll files. </p> <p>The feature management system has a standard client server architecture. The server is the feature management server and the dll files provide a series of APIs with which the client can communicate with the server. </p> </section> <section id="GUID-3AFD464F-ED48-5C72-86B3-0B1DF098317A-GENID-1-12-1-27-1-1-4-1-1-3-1-3-3"><title>Description</title> <p>As described above, the functionality of feature management can be broken into two groups: the server and the dll files. </p> <p>The feature manager server: this comes as an executable called featmgrserver.exe. </p> <ul><li id="GUID-81DA7DA3-3785-587A-84D8-C05EADD837FB-GENID-1-12-1-27-1-1-4-1-1-3-1-3-3-4-1"><p>This does all the feature management work that is keeping track of the status of each feature. </p> </li> </ul> <p>The communication to the feature management server is carried out via the two dll files i.e. featdiscovery.dll and featmgr.dll. </p> <ul><li id="GUID-3623FC76-619F-5347-96B3-D71D623D92D3-GENID-1-12-1-27-1-1-4-1-1-3-1-3-3-6-1"><p>Provide a means of telling the client when a change to the status of a feature has occurred. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-C59BFD29-3E45-52F5-8034-21030F7701CF-GENID-1-12-1-27-1-1-4-1-1-3-1-3-3-6-2"><p>Allows the client to specify which feature is to be enabled or disabled. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-821AD7FC-BA58-5976-A4F8-F0572CF61407-GENID-1-12-1-27-1-1-4-1-1-3-1-3-3-6-3"><p>Allows the client to add or delete features. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section id="GUID-53F35C75-D725-5543-9492-B58D6FCB552C-GENID-1-12-1-27-1-1-4-1-1-3-1-3-4"><title>Components</title> <p>The following components make up the feature management collection. </p> <ul><li id="GUID-CC662594-3E6C-5C1A-9055-1B83E683F84D-GENID-1-12-1-27-1-1-4-1-1-3-1-3-4-3-1"><p> <b>Feature Discovery</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>featdiscovery.dll</filepath>  </p> <p>Provides the APIs that provide only a subset of what can be provided by feature management. </p> <p>It provides the functionality for TFeatureSet and CFeatureDiscovery. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-8291E183-61D6-517A-9D0D-46F6BF97041F-GENID-1-12-1-27-1-1-4-1-1-3-1-3-4-3-2"><p> <b>Feature Manager</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>featmgr.dll </filepath>  </p> <p>Provides the APIs that allow the client to carry out the full functionality available with feature management. </p> <p>It provides the functionality for RFeatMgrClient, RFeatureControl, MFeatureObserver and CFeatureNotifier. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-3FBF3512-7D28-5533-92CB-5C141787DB6B-GENID-1-12-1-27-1-1-4-1-1-3-1-3-4-3-3"><p> <b>Feature Manager Server</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>featmgrserver.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>Performs all the actual operations and maintains details about features. </p> </li> </ul> </section> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-B71AC5E3-8AA8-55AD-916F-9E873926011B.dita"><linktext>Feature Manager
                Overview</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>