<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-1DF3E313-4FBE-495B-8DC7-CF7024C9B929" xml:lang="en"><title>DRM content format </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>DRM content format (DCF) is used to package and protect discrete media, such as ring tones, applications, and images. The content in DRM content format is encrypted using a symmetric encryption key. The content is then placed as a single content object in the DCF internal structure and layout. The MIME type for objects conforming to the DRM content format is <codeph>application/vnd.oma.drm.content</codeph>.</p>
<p>Packetized DRM content format (PDCF) is used to protect continuous media, such as audio and video. Continuous media is protected as a separate profile because it consists of data packets. Applications that read and parse continuous media handle the file on a packet-by-packet basis. To allow the playback of protected continuous media, the storage format needs to be structured to individually protect the packets.</p>
<p>This structurally aware packetization is also required in order to stream continuous media. An OMA DRM-compliant streaming server must be able to understand the content format structure in order to break the content into headers and packets that can be delivered to a client that understands the content format.</p>
</conbody></concept>