<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-62AE0683-642D-539A-A590-3D8210591BD9"><title>Working with Multiple Keystore Implementations</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>The Symbian key store architecture allows devices to have multiple, coexisting, keystore implementations. All implementations are accessed through an abstraction layer: the “unified keystore”. </p> <p> <codeph>keytool</codeph> fully supports multiple key store implementations with the option <codeph>–store</codeph> which can be used to specify a particular key store implementation which a command must use. To see a list of all available key store implementations the command <codeph>–listtores</codeph> or <codeph>-ls</codeph> for short, can be used. For example, you can use: </p> <p><userinput>keytool –ls</userinput> </p> <p>And obtain as result an output similar to: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-75FC5CB1-4124-55DB-B5C0-BA11E3CA3D41" xml:space="preserve">Symbian OS KeyStore Manipulation Tool
Copyright (c) 2004-2009 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies).  All rights reserved.
[0] Store Label: On-device key store
Version: 1.00    Serial Number: 0        Manufacturer: Nokia Corporation
</codeblock> <p>Each key store implementation has an entry. The number in brackets represents the key store index which will be used to refer to a specific keystore implementation in the <codeph>–store</codeph> option. A label, a human readable description of the implementation, is also present. Some meta-data is also available, such as, the version, serial number and manufacturer of a given implementation. In the above case, only one key store implementation is available. This is the standard on device stores provided by Symbian. </p> <p>With this knowledge, you can use the <codeph>–store</codeph> option to specify the key store implementation a command must use (See <xref href="GUID-6DF71555-1AB0-5B50-9FEA-E775F3AFEF8B.dita">Listing Keystore Contents</xref> for details of the option). </p> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-E90A22C7-0AD7-55C4-83BB-165E1AA1E296.dita"><linktext>Removing
                Keys</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-2E02B840-FF86-5535-BA0E-5C4C3B600E9B.dita"><linktext>Importing Private Keys</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>