<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-F7598A84-9736-5310-AAA4-5BCC4BE46C16" xml:lang="en"><title>SendAs
Tutorial</title><shortdesc>SendAs provides APIs which create messages in the Drafts folder
of a Message Store. It enables you to build the message parts, that is, to
add message recipient(s), subject, body and so on. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p> <b> Note:</b> This tutorial explains the basic steps of creating and sending
SendAs messages using the <xref href="GUID-382B8A9D-9D10-54CD-91A6-B9E7A2477662.dita">SendAs
example code</xref> as a reference. </p>

<section><title>Required background</title> <p>This tutorial assumes that
you have a good understanding of <xref href="GUID-B015C4A3-469E-5AC4-B9B9-A24AF7444E65.dita">SendAs</xref>. </p> </section>
<section><title>Introduction</title> <p>The <xref href="GUID-B015C4A3-469E-5AC4-B9B9-A24AF7444E65.dita#GUID-B015C4A3-469E-5AC4-B9B9-A24AF7444E65/GUID-24801AA6-6CDE-584F-A233-F7B68C1C59E3">SendAs
Server</xref> maintains all SendAs entries and controls the access to a message
store. It allows client applications to create messages in the Drafts folder
of the message store. The SendAs API allows a client application to launch
an appropriate message editor for a given message type. There are two methods
of sending messages: confirmed and unconfirmed send. Confirmed send requires
confirmation by the UI MTM which typically asks the phone user. Unconfirmed
send does not require confirmation by the UI MTM. </p> <p>The main client-side
classes of SendAs are <xref href="GUID-E1699CAB-423D-3AFA-BE77-3AFF38886EA3.dita"><apiname>RSendAs</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-4499491F-FA1A-38E1-BB13-1AB184A31DA6.dita"><apiname>RSendAsMessage</apiname></xref> . <xref href="GUID-E1699CAB-423D-3AFA-BE77-3AFF38886EA3.dita"><apiname>RSendAs</apiname></xref> is
used to establish a session with the SendAs Server and to find the available
message types and services. <xref href="GUID-4499491F-FA1A-38E1-BB13-1AB184A31DA6.dita"><apiname>RSendAsMessage</apiname></xref> is used to create,
set and send messages. </p> <p>Client applications do not require any capabilities
to use the <xref href="GUID-E1699CAB-423D-3AFA-BE77-3AFF38886EA3.dita"><apiname>RSendAs</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-4499491F-FA1A-38E1-BB13-1AB184A31DA6.dita"><apiname>RSendAsMessage</apiname></xref> classes.
However, if an application does not have the necessary security capabilities
to send a message, the SendAs Server ensures that a message is only sent with
the user's authorization. See <xref href="GUID-B015C4A3-469E-5AC4-B9B9-A24AF7444E65.dita">SendAs
Overview</xref> for more information. </p> </section>
<section><title>Procedure</title> <ol id="GUID-69EF301A-CC59-56FA-A1B3-9C02F057F2CF">
<li id="GUID-DD963B8B-2D29-5D66-BE0D-4218E17618FF"><p><xref href="GUID-F7598A84-9736-5310-AAA4-5BCC4BE46C16.dita#GUID-F7598A84-9736-5310-AAA4-5BCC4BE46C16/GUID-D9B54B5B-97EE-5DF4-90D5-FF25B4227771">Create a session with the SendAs Server</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B2FD6BBE-100B-5AF9-A084-C8D370A1580A"><p><xref href="GUID-F7598A84-9736-5310-AAA4-5BCC4BE46C16.dita#GUID-F7598A84-9736-5310-AAA4-5BCC4BE46C16/GUID-0AA95951-07F0-56A7-A5B8-2F82C3A299EE">Select from a list of available MTMs and accounts</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-D53B6C37-5596-5925-A085-1962A744ADB1"><p><xref href="GUID-F7598A84-9736-5310-AAA4-5BCC4BE46C16.dita#GUID-F7598A84-9736-5310-AAA4-5BCC4BE46C16/GUID-0B01641A-1BB0-5A44-AF48-B0C4A1730C4D">Create and populate a message</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-729F11F2-88F5-5E45-BA77-009D469374D1"><p><xref href="GUID-F7598A84-9736-5310-AAA4-5BCC4BE46C16.dita#GUID-F7598A84-9736-5310-AAA4-5BCC4BE46C16/GUID-109BD9F2-A6D5-500D-BEA0-AA7AA3C822B8">Send the message</xref>. </p> </li>
</ol> </section>
<example><title>SendAs example</title> <p>For more details on implementing
all the SendAs functions, see <xref href="GUID-382B8A9D-9D10-54CD-91A6-B9E7A2477662.dita">SendAs
example code</xref>. </p> </example>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-31859C3F-2D71-58E9-ACA8-99FAB00A48C6.dita"><linktext>OBEX MTM</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-C290FA5E-8E41-5D19-B8C1-F88491EE6388.dita"><linktext>Messaging
Framework</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>