<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-72986B3C-047C-5411-8F15-BC9C65C3289C"><title>Using Typefaces </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>Typefaces are stored in the Font Store. Each typeface in the store has an index number. </p> <p>You can examine the contents of the typeface store using functions in <xref href="GUID-B6AB1A2A-705C-3ABA-8BBB-C36F3319501F.dita"><apiname>CGraphicsDevice.</apiname></xref>  </p> <p>To find the number of typefaces available: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-DD17B13B-29E0-5584-B85E-639FD2BAB7DF" xml:space="preserve">
// Find the number of typefaces
TInt numTypefaces = iCoeEnv-&gt;ScreenDevice()-&gt;NumTypefaces();</codeblock> <p>You can find out about a type face using the <codeph>TypefaceSupport</codeph> function which returns a <xref href="GUID-39BEE3B2-6A44-33EC-8F93-31E633844086.dita"><apiname>TTypeFaceSupport</apiname></xref>. Each typeface can have a number of sizes or be scalable between a minimum and maximum size. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-B47975BF-3B7A-57B2-854E-1D59166A47A3" xml:space="preserve">
class TTypefaceSupport
    {
public:    
    TTypeface iTypeface  ;  // The name and attributes of the typeface.
    TInt iNumHeights;       // The number of distinct font heights available in the typeface. 
    TInt iMinHeightInTwips; // The typeface's minimum font height, in twips.
    TInt iMaxHeightInTwips; // The typeface's maximum font height, in twips. 
    TBool iIsScalable;      // ETrue if  scalable, otherwise EFalse. 
    };
    
class TTypeface
    {
public:
    enum
        {
        EProportional = 1, // (e.g. Swiss)
        ESerif = 2, // (e.g. Times )
        ESymbol = 4, // (e.g. Symbol )
        };
public:
    ...
    IMPORT_C TBool IsProportional() const;
    IMPORT_C TBool IsSerif() const;
    IMPORT_C TBool IsSymbol() const;

    TBufC&lt;KMaxTypefaceNameLength&gt; iName;
    ....
    };
</codeblock> <p>The code below illustrates a simple iteration through the typeface store (see also <xref href="GUID-78FB26E2-AA60-5531-B2FE-4FA6C88F2D47.dita">selecting a font</xref>). </p> <codeblock id="GUID-368C7CBB-254E-5904-A3C5-51BB1FA94931" xml:space="preserve">...
    
CGraphicsDevice* gDev = iCoeEnv-&gt;ScreenDevice() ;
CWindowGc&amp; gc = SystemGc() ;
TPoint textPosition ( 0 , 0 ) ; // Start position for drawing text.
    
// display a list of typefaces - with each in its own typeface
for ( index = 0 ; index &lt; numTypefaces ; index++ )
    {
    // get the next typeface
    TTypefaceSupport typeface ;
    gDev-&gt;TypefaceSupport( typeface, index ) ;
    TPtrC fontName = typeface.iTypeface.iName.Des() ;
    
    // use the typeface to get a font 
    TFontSpec fontSpec( fontName, 300 ) ; // 300 twips font height
    CFont* font ; 
    gDev-&gt;GetNearestFontToMaxHeightInTwips( font , fontSpec ) ;
    
    // use the font in the graphics context
    gc.UseFont( font ) ;
    
    // display the name of the font 
    textPosition.iTL.iY += font.iAscentInPixels ;
    gc.DrawText( fontName, textPosition ) ; // draw text on baseline
    textPosition.iTL.iY += ( font.iDescentInPixels + KWhiteSpaceBetweenLines ) ;
        
    // 
    gc.DiscardFont( font ) ;
    gDev-&gt;ReleaseFont( font ) ;
    
    }
...</codeblock> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-C1B080D9-9C6C-520B-B73E-4EB344B1FC5E.dita"><linktext>GDI Collection Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-90644B52-69D7-595C-95E3-D6F7A30C060D.dita"><linktext> Font and Text Services Collection
                Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-71DADA82-3ABC-52D2-8360-33FAEB2E5DE9.dita"><linktext> Font and Bitmap Server
                Component Overview </linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-416A3756-B5D5-5BCD-830E-2371C5F6B502.dita"><linktext>Font Store Component
                Overview</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>