<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-A668C70B-1AFF-5D58-9527-8530E2472227" xml:lang="en"><title>Buffers
And Strings Overview</title><shortdesc>This document provides an overview of buffers and strings.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-247120B1-68AD-4827-B7B3-AE9696BE7F8E"><title>Purpose</title> <p>Manipulates strings and general data buffers.</p> </section>
<section id="GUID-775BAD91-2920-4027-9E47-C727847A45DD"><title>Description</title> <p>The central Symbian platform idiom
for both strings and buffers is descriptors. Some APIs in this group, such
as Literals, Lexical Analysis, and Package Buffers provide additional descriptor
handling facilities. In some circumstances, applications may need to manage
raw data buffers directly in memory. For this, the Dynamic Buffers and Raw
Memory APIs are available.</p> <p><b>APIs</b> </p> <p>Use
the APIs as follows:</p> <p><xref href="GUID-21C04887-9F9C-5066-AA1D-B30C433CC0AE.dita">Circular
Buffers Overview</xref> </p> <p>Provides a fixed length first-in first-out
queue of fixed size objects. </p> <p><xref href="GUID-0817AD1D-58CF-5108-ACBF-26DFD4BA395E.dita">Descriptors
Overview</xref> </p> <p>Manipulates string and data buffer.</p> <p><xref href="GUID-C15F56E3-753C-55CA-B3EF-63B2D139BCE4.dita">Dynamic
Buffers Overview</xref> </p> <p>Manipulates data buffers of variable length.</p> <p><xref href="GUID-2E22CB5B-E648-5760-AB74-8947C7EDE2CF.dita">Lexical Analysis Overview</xref> </p> <p>Provides
string analysis and string-to-number conversions.</p> <p><xref href="GUID-106B5A31-012E-503D-A972-A745ECADC1E7.dita">Literals
Overview</xref> </p> <p>Provides simple creation of descriptors that contain
read-only literal text.</p> <p><xref href="GUID-E189B0C0-AAB5-5472-996B-91043DE0B6D4.dita">Package
Buffers Overview</xref> </p> <p>Allows any value type (<codeph>T</codeph> class)
to be encapsulated as a descriptor, for the purpose of inter-thread parameter
passing.</p> <p><xref href="GUID-506642C2-A14F-55F2-9377-43DDB14F4053.dita">Raw
Memory Overview</xref>  </p> <p>Performs simple manipulations of data in memory.</p> </section>
<section id="GUID-0FA9F64E-BE2B-4BF0-9E20-24758DBD3660"><title>See also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-EA98D77C-743B-5BA5-B131-A327B12A099C.dita">Character
Representation Of Real Numbers Overview</xref> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-D0D27AEA-FDDB-5F6F-94F6-ADDF5910DC47.dita">Client/Server
Overview</xref> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-949EE53F-8D85-50B8-B8BA-541B6BF0DAC4.dita">Descriptor
Arrays Overview</xref> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-B1BDF68C-F989-56BD-AED4-727595D7355C.dita">Doubly
Linked Lists Overview</xref> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-54417A4F-710D-5257-BF49-13D9F28C92B9.dita">Memory
Management Overview</xref> </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>