<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-B238952B-1691-49F4-B8B9-9F755011A7DD" xml:lang="en"><title>View
resource statements in the view architecture</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>If defined, the Symbian platform uses the <parmname>VIEW</parmname> <xref href="GUID-5F749184-C804-41FC-BA81-038783BDC967.dita">resources</xref> statements
to define separate <xref href="GUID-E849C798-07A0-47B3-BDBF-203325062FBD.dita">menu
bars</xref> and <xref href="GUID-A4F3738C-CBFD-4151-9132-26FE05966715.dita">CBAs</xref> for
different views in your application. For more information on views, see <xref href="GUID-DAC32BB9-C0EB-42FF-A596-C2F1A90A4BD7.dita">Views</xref>.</p>
<p>To define specific GUI component resources for a view:</p>
<ol>
<li id="GUID-33696BB5-19CF-4A04-90DA-DB4063308E6B"><p>Determine
the view requirements of your application.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-52943370-2366-4794-8731-E7D5AC3219FE"><p>Create a <parmname>AVKON_VIEW</parmname> resource
in your resource file. The <parmname>AVKON_VIEW</parmname> structure is defined
in the <parmname>avkon.rh</parmname> file. The syntax is as follows:</p>
<codeblock id="GUID-39D69E48-33FD-4B24-8969-AC6CA113ABF5" xml:space="preserve">RESOURCE AVKON_VIEW r_myapp_view1
{
menubar = r_myapp_menubar1;
cba = R_AVKON_SOFTKEYS_OPTIONS_BACK;
}</codeblock>
<p>where:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><parmname>r_myapp_view1</parmname> is a unique name for the
resource declaration.</p></li>
<li><p><parmname>menubar</parmname> defines the <xref href="GUID-5918ED8A-B26B-41A0-94A6-AB6D51BF80A1.dita">menubar</xref> resource.</p>
</li>
<li><p><parmname>cba</parmname> defines the <xref href="GUID-A4F3738C-CBFD-4151-9132-26FE05966715.dita">control
pane</xref> resource.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>All values refer to other resources defined either in the resource file
or to <xref href="GUID-CBB00F6A-CBA7-4872-B0A1-A86A863725F5.dita">precompiled values
available from the Symbian platform</xref>. Note that if an element is not
declared, then the default value declared in the structure is used. By default,
all elements are not used.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-28EA7785-EE88-4901-B525-DC864506FBC6"><p>Call the view
resource in the UI implementation.</p></li>
</ol>
<note>
<p>You can call <parmname>BaseConstructL()</parmname> without any parameters,
in which case the default application menu and CBA are used for the view. </p>
</note>
</conbody></concept>