<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-6B2221F2-A598-4677-A2D3-40FF27C7373F" xml:lang="en"><title>SDIO
Tools Overview</title><shortdesc>Describes the tools required for SDIO implementation.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Symbian Analysis Workbench (SAW) is used for debugging the Platform Specific
Layer (PSL) implementation issues. SAW can be used to view the function calls
between the Platform Independent Layer (PIL) and PSL. </p>
<section id="GUID-95012D5E-8422-48CA-873B-B514ED2D9070"><title>SAW</title><p>The
SAW tool binaries can be obtained from <filepath>\\builds01\devbuilds\DeveloperProduct\ComponentisedReleases\tools_baseline\tools_saw\DP00468_DeveloperProduct</filepath>. Extract the binaries into the Carbide.c++ plugins folder and restart Carbide
to use the SAW tool. </p><p>Download the device side agents of the SAW tool
from <filepath>\\builds01\dpbuilds\SAW\SAW_1.0_002</filepath> and install
into the <codeph>epoc32</codeph> folder.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-6F443B82-DB79-4B54-B1D6-659C22BEA866"><title>Extended trace
information</title><p>To obtain detailed tracing information, the trace points
in the PIL code should be enabled. The trace points are enabled
by using the macro <codeph> SYMBIAN_TRACE_SDIO_VERBOSE</codeph> in the <filepath>utraceepbussdio.h</filepath> file. </p></section>
<section id="GUID-E5A7EC01-E7D2-4A04-8D48-D6BA4EC76FEE"><title>Unit test tracing</title><p>To
trace the function calls between SDIO drivers, unit test code and the PSL
layer, define the macro <codeph>SYMBIAN_TRACE_SDIO_DUMP</codeph> in the <filepath>utraceepbussdio.h</filepath> file
to enable the additional trace points.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>