<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-F6460808-A806-5701-983E-CCD92EF3F688" xml:lang="en"><title>Networking
Services Quick Start</title><shortdesc>Networking Services provides a standard framework for accessing
network services and implementations of network protocols. The components
of the Networking Services are closely related to the framework provided by
the Communications Framework module. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-6186F589-7530-40A1-B466-335C512A25FA"><title>Getting started with Networking Services</title> <p>Networking
Services is used in the following circumstances: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-452B9F6E-82BF-5E2C-AF53-004208132D31"><p>If you are writing an
application or application level protocol that needs access to the Internet,
use the Internet Sockets interface and the Communications Framework Sockets
Server client. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-943C19EF-20B3-5982-AF20-B90007DD2721"><p>If you are a licensee
and need to extend or modify the behaviour of the TCP/IP implementation, write
a plug-in using the IPHook interface. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-69D9BDC0-BF27-526A-80E3-31DED2BCF956"><p>If you want to debug
existing application software and configure network settings. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-7642BF52-E4B7-4DE3-9038-8F3CD0CA64E0"><title>Architecture</title> <p>Networking Services enable mobile
devices to connect to the internet and network applications using protocols
such as TCP/IP and IPSec. The main areas of Networking Services are: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-506F919B-9E09-511B-823B-82210CAF5FD2"><p> <b>Link Layer Protocols</b>  </p> <p>The
Link Layer Protocols collection groups the networking protocols for the Data
Link Layer, including Ethernet and PPP. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-54757889-3FA3-5258-931F-27FF7DA447CB.dita">Link
Layer Protocols</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-200F8660-6101-5C4D-9BB5-5C129A01E592"><p> <b>Network Security</b>  </p> <p>The
Network Security collection is the set of components that provide security
protocols for an IP connection. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-198A417F-EA4D-58A0-A928-A78FCE1BB772.dita">Network
Security</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F91DFA42-4A5F-5541-97CB-7B02FD0728DF"><p> <b>Network Test and
Utilities</b>  </p> <p>The Network Test and Utilities collection provides
components that are used to measure network performance. For more information,
see <xref href="GUID-55C8AEBD-7BB2-524C-9AED-5DFFD42AAD25.dita">Network Performance
Testing</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-858A0576-6E7A-52CC-8895-83B247657941"><p> <b>Network Protocols</b>  </p> <p>The
Network Protocols collection is a set of plug-ins to the Sockets Server. The
plug-ins implement network protocols, such as TCP/IP, that can be accessed
through a sockets type interface. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-82438A0F-819C-5CDC-81DC-A8BFE3AA4A6A.dita">Network
Protocols</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-E516FF95-8EC7-502E-914A-6987D8D04513"><p> <b>Network Control</b>  </p> <p>The
Network Control collection controls the resource availablity for applications
in mobile devices. It prioritises the applications on the device to ensure
performance consistancy and application access to the network. For more information,
see <xref href="GUID-B5E17404-4D2D-5EE3-B30B-DFDC5E0739FF.dita">Network Control</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-98B26BD5-B245-533D-B3C5-AF56B7220F35"><p> <b>PPP Compression
Plugins</b>  </p> <p>This collection contains the Point-to-Point Protocol
(PPP) Compression Plugins used by the Point-to-Point Protocol component. For
more information, see <xref href="GUID-2EEA830C-1E2B-56D1-9104-F4A61FE0BA52.dita">PPP
Compression Plugins</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3B38421C-39C8-5832-AF53-4E513C542C58"><p> <b>TCP/IP Utilities</b>  </p> <p>The
TCP/IP Utilities collection provides libraries used by TCP/IPv4/v6 for the
DNS and DHCP protocols. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-7821C498-70A2-5D3C-989A-58CEBAE9162B.dita">TCP/IP
Utilities</xref>. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>The Symbian platform Networking Services structure can be compared
to the standard OSI Model for the layering of network protocols. The OSI Model
defines seven layers. Each layer defines a stage that data must go through
to travel from one device to another over a network. A layer corresponds to
a group of components that perform similar tasks in the Operating System. </p> <p>The
uppermost OSI Model layer is the Application Layer, which provides application
services to the end user software applications. The lowest OSI Model layer
is the Physical Layer, which deals with network connections and other physical
network attributes. </p> <p>The following section lists the OSI Model layers
and gives a brief description of each: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-0F603DB6-AF9B-5FD1-AAB9-329E7AC49353"><p> <b>Application Layer</b>  </p> <p>The
Application Layer interacts with the operating system or application when
the user wants to transfer files, read messages or perform other network related
activities. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-48364975-5F2A-505D-BAE9-EC579578CA66"><p> <b>Presentation Layer</b>  </p> <p>The
Presentation Layer takes data from the Application Layer and converts it into
a format that the other layers can interpret. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B30EA44E-7C5F-52C1-B488-D95AC95E96FD"><p> <b>Session Layer</b>  </p> <p>The
Session Layer establishes, maintains, and ends communication with the receiving
device. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-EC7EF5C1-AACA-5872-AF70-D3008ABAC525"><p> <b>Transport Layer</b>  </p> <p>The
Transport Layer takes the incoming data from applications and combines it
into a single stream. This stream is then passed on to the Network Layer. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-99931DB9-25C1-558E-90B7-3BC3E8A62373"><p> <b>Network Layer</b>  </p> <p>The
Network Layer determines the way the data is sent to the recipient device.
Logical protocols, routing, and addressing are all dealt with in this layer. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-88D80283-7D8A-5FA9-B6E3-18D6E9F47302"><p> <b>Data Layer</b>  </p> <p>The
Data Layer assigns physical protocol to the data. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-4853FB9D-489A-5DDE-8281-26DC8365F580"><p> <b>Physical Layer</b>  </p> <p>The
Physical Layer defines the physical characteristics such as connections, voltage
levels and timing. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-E2ED0182-276A-4EC7-8460-003F3493699A"><title>Technologies</title> <p>The following table maps the various
communications technologies implemented in Symbian platform to the layers
defined by the OSI Model. Networking Services implements technologies that
mostly map to the Transport and Network Layers. Other Symbian platform
modules implement higher level application layer protocols and device drivers
that implement the bottom layers of the stack. </p> <table id="GUID-437DB8ED-936A-5DA0-A1B0-463A0DF0A80D">
<tgroup cols="1"><colspec colname="col0"/>
<tbody>
<row valign="middle">
<entry align="center">Application Layer</entry>
</row>
<row valign="top">
<entry align="center"><xref href="GUID-69B46D92-8D07-5B42-B603-3F725977AA4A.dita">DHCP</xref>     
¦      <xref href="GUID-F532D96F-7CB0-5CC7-9382-0CF44F7C0234.dita">DNS</xref>      ¦
      FTP      ¦     <xref href="GUID-B4A54501-4AA4-5ACB-96D7-4427C7752639.dita">HTTP</xref>     
¦     <xref href="GUID-993629CB-17B4-5E87-8DE1-06A4AC473FDD.dita">RTCP</xref>     
¦      <xref href="GUID-093516F2-9076-5A96-9BEF-F5A77F75239C.dita">SIP</xref>      
¦     TELNET</entry>
</row>
<row valign="top">
<entry align="center">Presentation Layer</entry>
</row>
<row valign="top">
<entry align="center"><xref href="GUID-3D20F136-4526-502D-A708-1F26550FC61A.dita">TLS/SSL</xref></entry>
</row>
<row valign="top">
<entry align="center">Session Layer</entry>
</row>
<row valign="top">
<entry align="center"><xref href="GUID-993629CB-17B4-5E87-8DE1-06A4AC473FDD.dita">RTP</xref></entry>
</row>
<row valign="top">
<entry align="center"> Transport Layer</entry>
</row>
<row valign="top">
<entry align="center"><xref href="GUID-A9640739-462C-5D95-8DCC-D273CD8439AE.dita">TCP</xref>        
¦       <xref href="GUID-A9640739-462C-5D95-8DCC-D273CD8439AE.dita">UDP</xref> </entry>
</row>
<row valign="top">
<entry align="center"> Network Layer</entry>
</row>
<row valign="top">
<entry><xref href="GUID-A9640739-462C-5D95-8DCC-D273CD8439AE.dita">IP (IPv4/IPv6)</xref>    
¦       <xref href="GUID-7BACF7C1-0762-53E6-A507-1395016811D6.dita">IPsec</xref></entry>
</row>
<row valign="top">
<entry align="center"> Data Link Layer </entry>
</row>
<row valign="top">
<entry align="center"><xref href="GUID-9330621E-1400-5F52-BACB-48DB814E2922.dita">Ethernet</xref>     
¦      <xref href="GUID-8F565241-149E-5AF7-972E-A06B6DDC1B9F.dita">GPRS</xref> </entry>
</row>
<row valign="top">
<entry align="center"> Physical Layer </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="center"><xref href="GUID-36AF783B-A56A-5C16-A055-9075ED4396C5.dita">RS232</xref>    
¦    Ethernet Physical Layer     ¦
     <xref href="GUID-9B83CDD4-FC94-51A0-AC67-CD04BCAFEF08.dita">Serial
Communications</xref>       ¦               <xref href="GUID-DE2E64A5-417A-538C-904B-6D498BB55273.dita">USB</xref>  </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
</conbody></concept>