<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-936A024F-FFBA-530E-A2C6-C835B71633F7" xml:lang="en"><title>DirectGDI
Library Overview </title><shortdesc>The DirectGDI library provides the key elements of the DirectGDI
component—driver, resources and drawing context. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p> <b>Target audience</b>: Device creators. </p>
<note type="note">DirectGDI is deprecated in Symbian^3.</note>
<p>The following table identifies the Dynamic Link Library (DLL) that provides
the core DirectGDI functionality. </p>
<table id="GUID-5B3051B3-36C6-52D5-9AE9-9CAD808C5BF5">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>DLL</entry>
<entry>LIB</entry>
<entry>Short Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <filepath>directgdi.dll</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>directgdi.lib</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This DLL provides the key elements of DirectGDI—driver, resources
and drawing context. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<section id="GUID-A1945CBE-2DF1-4C46-A428-5C1460E3E0E9"><title>Key classes</title> <p>The following table provides a summary
of the key classes that make up the DirectGDI API library. </p> <table id="GUID-34C88F36-176A-59B6-8A26-1656DC4503DD">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Class</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <xref href="GUID-0C7CD826-95FD-3DD2-9394-3A20316C9C61.dita"><apiname>CDirectGdiDriver</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This class defines the API which is used by DirectGDI client applications.
It is implemented using the handle/body idiom. The handle part forms the public
and private API that is used by DirectGDI client applications and other DirectGDI
generic parts. The body part defines the HAI that needs to be implemented
by an adaptation. The implementation of the handle part is generic for all
adaptations. The implementation of the body part is adaptation specific and
provides interfaces for initialization, termination, construction of the concrete
drawing engine and the creation of source or target rendering. This class
is a singleton within a thread. It delegates to an adaptation-specific implementation
that provides a platform-specific mechanism. See <xref href="GUID-E9C6DBBF-1910-595D-94A1-67664CF7B7A6.dita">DirectGDI
Interface Component Overview</xref> for more information. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <xref href="GUID-09AFDE10-489E-3215-B821-DE7B2D31A007.dita"><apiname>CDirectGdiContext</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This class is the new drawing context intended for hardware accelerated
rendering. It defines an API that is very similar to that provided by <xref href="GUID-4A501086-7EFF-376D-8901-6D9B2EB4EFF2.dita"><apiname>CFbsBitGc</apiname></xref> but
which enables hardware accelerated rendering when it is available. A software
implementation can be used on devices where hardware acceleration is not available.
In addition it provides new APIs for drawing using DirectGDI drawable sources.
This class is part of the generic layer and forwards drawing requests to the
adaptation-specific drawing engine to execute. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <xref href="GUID-A407AA66-1B94-36F9-8C15-60BFC5A8D404.dita"><apiname>CDirectGdiFont</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This class is very similar to the <xref href="GUID-4C2C5521-3C82-39AA-97C3-C25EBB748263.dita"><apiname>CFbsBitGcFont</apiname></xref> class.
The major portion of text rendering (for example, font rasterization, layout
and glyph shaping) is done at the generic layer. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-CD4B8ECA-AFE7-593C-B095-5D642EA2EC61.dita"><linktext>DirectGDI
Component Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-E2A886E1-39FD-517F-870E-3B1BCD49E8CD.dita"><linktext>Off-Screen
Rendering with                 DirectGDI Tutorial</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>