<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-D9F25AAD-18A1-43AC-B59B-82396DAA68F9" xml:lang="en"><title>Touch-based
multiple selection</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-7C6662B8-828D-4923-A0A2-7565F42401D6"><title>Multiselection
list</title><p>Items in a multiselection list can be selected with the stylus
as well as with keypad. A tap on an item in the list moves the focus onto
that item and toggles the item between the marked and unmarked states.</p><p>If
nothing is marked when the left softkey is pressed, either the focused item
is considered as selected, or nothing is selected. The aim is that if the
user only wants to select a single item, this can be done by simply moving
the focus to that item and pressing the left softkey (<b>Done</b>).</p></section>
<section id="GUID-DF602D3D-3BA3-462B-A3BF-306077604424"><title>Markable list</title><p>There
are a number of tap/stylus drag + hardware key configurations for marking
items in a markable list. These configurations depend on whether the device
in question uses an ITU-T keypad with/without the Edit key, a full QWERTY
keyboard, or no keypad at all. In the latter case, when there is only stylus
in use, marking is done via the <b>Options</b> menu by selecting <b>Mark/Unmark</b> or <b>Mark/Unmark
all</b>. </p><p>A markable grid works in the same way as a markable list.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-DE1E3982-3C34-412F-99A4-BD3E3EA13005"><title>Cut-Copy-Paste</title><p>The Cut, Copy and Paste functions
are available in touch-enabled devices as normal. But along with the hardware
keys, text selection can be done by dragging the stylus over a given text
and selecting function from the Options menu or possible stylus pop-up menu.
The dragging selection functions in editors but not in viewers.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>