<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-A5914CFF-6F86-53E8-9928-36D3379835B1" xml:lang="en"><title>EGL
Interface Overview</title><shortdesc>The EGL Interface component defines the interface to EGL on the
Symbian platform. The component standardizes the source and binary interfaces
by providing header and LIB/DSO files for EGL users as well as DEF files for
EGL implementers. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section><title>Supported APIs</title> <p>The EGL specifications are defined
by the Khronos Group (<xref href="http://www.khronos.org" scope="external">www.khronos.org</xref>).
The following table provides links to the relevant specifications. </p> <table id="GUID-43D6B812-B4AB-506E-8159-61FA0DEC6F2A">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>APIs</entry>
<entry>Specification</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>EGL 1.4 </entry>
<entry><xref href="http://www.khronos.org/registry/egl/specs/eglspec.1.4.pdf" scope="external">http://www.khronos.org/registry/egl/specs/eglspec.1.4.pdf</xref> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>EGL 1.3 </entry>
<entry><xref href="http://www.khronos.org/registry/egl/specs/eglspec.1.3.pdf" scope="external">http://www.khronos.org/registry/egl/specs/eglspec.1.3.pdf </xref> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>EGL 1.2 </entry>
<entry><xref href="http://www.khronos.org/files/egl_1_2.pdf" scope="external">http://www.khronos.org/files/egl_1_2.pdf</xref> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
<section><title>Header files</title> <p>The EGL Interface component includes
the Khronos-released header file, <filepath>egl.h</filepath>, and <filepath>egltypes.h</filepath>,
which is the Symbian equivalent of the Khronos <filepath>eglplatform.h</filepath>.
Use of the header files supplied in the EGL Interface component helps to ensure
binary compatibility for applications across different Symbian platforms.
It also provides source compatibility between different operating systems.
These header files incorporate minor changes such as Doxygen tags (/** comments)
but these have no effect on the functionality. </p> <p>The header files are
provided for EGL 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4. The EGL 1.4 headers are used by default.
However, there is a variability point that can expose the headers for EGL
1.3 or 1.2 instead. </p> <p>The Symbian-defined header file <filepath>\epoc32\include\khronos_types.h</filepath> maps
the Khronos-defined basic types to native Symbian types. </p> </section>
<section><title> Library file</title> <p>The following library is provided
by the EGL Interface component. </p> <table id="GUID-0AA8A4D7-72F2-5C6D-A32B-11CB5631F5E0">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Library</entry>
<entry>Name</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>EGL </entry>
<entry><filepath> libEGL.lib</filepath> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
<section><title> DEF files</title> <p>The EGL Interface component also supplies
DEF files to further ensure binary compatibility between different platforms.
These files exist for the WINS and WINSCW emulator and ARM hardware platforms.
Although the names have a trailing 'u', this is not specified by MMP file
entries as it is appended to references automatically. </p> <p><b>DEF files
for WINS and WINSCW </b> </p> <table id="GUID-1FF2D995-AAB9-5B86-9EAD-C6E533A7B339">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Library</entry>
<entry>Name</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>EGL 1.4 </entry>
<entry><filepath>\epoc32\include\platform\def\win32\libegl14u.def </filepath> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>EGL 1.3  </entry>
<entry><filepath>\epoc32\include\platform\def\win32\libegl13u.def </filepath> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>EGL 1.2 </entry>
<entry><filepath>\epoc32\include\platform\def\win32\libegl12u.def </filepath> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p><b>DEF files for ARM </b> </p> <table id="GUID-153A4DF2-F1AA-5878-914C-D6D4A7270549">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Library</entry>
<entry>Name</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>EGL 1.4 </entry>
<entry><filepath>\epoc32\include\platform\def\eabi\libegl14u.def </filepath> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>EGL 1.3  </entry>
<entry><filepath>\epoc32\include\platform\def\eabi\libegl13u.def </filepath> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>EGL 1.2 </entry>
<entry><filepath>\epoc32\include\platform\def\eabi\libegl12u.def </filepath> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-D252E75C-C8CA-5C51-8DA3-95B937A1295C.dita"><linktext>EGL Interface
Component</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>