<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-C4A072E1-4385-5C98-98C1-56F297132F11" xml:lang="en"><title> Remote
Control Framework Tutorial</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>In this tutorial series we will be looking at creating a Bluetooth Remote
Control application. </p>
<p><b>Intended Audience: </b> </p>
<p>This tutorial is designed for Symbian licensees and 3rd party application
developers. </p>
<section><title>Remote Control Basics</title> <p>Before moving on to the tutorials
it may be useful to review some of the basic Remote Control Framework concepts. </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-2C9A13C1-7E05-5187-990E-983665A150EB"><p> <b>Roles</b>  </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-FE3159BE-E2DE-56F7-A2A2-12A938E46799"><p>Controller </p> <p>This
device creates a connection over Bluetooth to the device to be controlled
and sends the commands as required. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B1C76224-3980-5CB8-8D81-A4672A9F2F25"><p>Target device </p> <p>The
target device receives remote control commands and sends responses back along
the same route to the controller. The target device can only operate in the
connectionless mode. (See below) </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-BEDEAFAB-BB73-5047-8430-D104C88C829F"><p>Both </p> <p>Operates
as both a remote controller and a target. </p> </li>
</ul> </li>
<li id="GUID-B1B438C0-3551-5E16-8B28-53D6B923660F"><p> <b>Modes</b>  </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-B66F1E23-DCDB-5C66-9B10-62111B3A30FA"><p>Connection-Oriented </p> <p>Creates
a connection over a known bearer to a known device. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9C42F717-7C4D-5308-9DA1-F23933BDD3DC"><p>Connectionless </p> <p>Creates
a connection using the Target Selector Plugin, which discovers the bearer
and device address. </p> </li>
</ul> </li>
</ul> <p>See the <xref href="GUID-95493C3D-58C6-5EBF-85E1-167D58E68658.dita">Remote
Control Framework Overview</xref> for more details. </p> </section>
<section><title>Using Bluetooth Remote Control Framework</title> <p>The following
tasks will be covered in this tutorial series: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-5EF72DEF-DB48-5E3B-8D8F-121171CF54E4"><p>Starting as Controller </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-2DCBA125-5055-5780-809B-B889E590C281"><p>Sending Commands </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DB4AFDDD-AEA7-5F2A-9330-7AE3C60A88D6"><p>Receiving Responses </p> </li>
</ul> </li>
<li id="GUID-9837115E-E6E5-5D61-92F3-B0C610C52FB0"><p>Starting as Target </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-E845DB73-9270-509D-B570-C490F810AD2A"><p>Receiving Commands </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A2216024-F00B-5775-843C-35F55DF31234"><p>Sending Responses </p> </li>
</ul> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>What's next?</title> <ul>
<li id="GUID-DACBAEB3-B112-5C82-9CF9-2740545BA29E"><p> <b>Remote Control Basics</b> -
This document </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2DB02042-DBBE-58E5-908B-7D0E3C8109AB"><p> <xref href="GUID-E25A5C1E-83D7-51D5-8F11-9C44C6CEEDCE.dita">Starting
as Controller</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8EE2DF84-7D0C-5752-AB11-9B0724CCDD05"><p> <xref href="GUID-8E25E84C-E8F3-50B2-82E5-0611A341ED27.dita">Starting
as Target</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-D44A89B6-7620-5E9B-9D51-EDBB95FAC083"><p> <xref href="GUID-7DDF477A-1744-589A-82CB-3CB32D56D7CE.dita">Commands
and Responses</xref>  </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
</conbody></concept>