<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-5AF0B573-4351-5735-92A1-4F29BCF9A164"><title>prj_mmpfiles</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p> <codeph>prj_mmpfiles</codeph> </p> <p> <varname>mmp_file_1</varname>  <codeph>[build_as_arm]</codeph> <codeph>[tidy]</codeph>  </p> <p> <codeph>makefile</codeph>  <varname>makefile_1</varname> <codeph>[build_as_arm]</codeph>  <codeph>[tidy]</codeph> </p> <p> <codeph>makefile</codeph>  <varname>makefile_n</varname> <codeph>[build_as_arm]</codeph>  <codeph>[tidy]</codeph> </p> <p> <codeph>nmakefile</codeph>  <varname>makefile_1</varname> <codeph>[build_as_arm]</codeph>  <codeph>[tidy]</codeph> </p> <p> <codeph>nmakefile</codeph>  <varname>makefile_n</varname> <codeph>[build_as_arm]</codeph>  <codeph>[tidy]</codeph> </p> <p> <codeph>gnumakefile</codeph>  <varname>makefile_1</varname> <codeph>[build_as_arm]</codeph>  <codeph>[tidy]</codeph> </p> <p> <codeph>gnumakefile</codeph>  <varname>makefile_n</varname> <codeph>[build_as_arm]</codeph>  <codeph>[tidy]</codeph> </p> <p>In the <codeph>prj_mmpfiles</codeph> section, list the <filepath>.mmp</filepath> files contained in your component. </p> <p>Specify each <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file on a separate line. </p> <section><title>Relative paths</title> <p>If a relative path is specified with an <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file, the path will be considered relative to the directory containing the <filepath>bld.inf</filepath> file. </p> <p>For example, if in the <codeph>prj_mmpfiles</codeph> section, a certain <filepath>Hello.mmp</filepath> file is specified as a relative path: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-69924087-2F44-502F-86CE-25C3BEACEF7E" xml:space="preserve">PRJ_MMPFILES
ProjSpec\Hello.mmp</codeblock> <p>and if the <filepath>bld.inf</filepath> file is in <filepath>\MyComp\</filepath>, then the full path for the location of <filepath>Hello.mmp</filepath> will be <filepath>\MyComp\ProjSpec\Hello.mmp</filepath>. </p> </section> <section><title>The tidy attribute</title> <p>Specify the <codeph>tidy</codeph> attribute if the releasable that an .<filepath>mmp</filepath> file defines is purely internal to your component, and therefore not required either by other components or for your component to execute. </p> <p>If the tidy attribute is specified in your component’s description file, then this will indicate to the <filepath>abld</filepath> tool when it is used to run the command <codeph>abld tidy</codeph>, to remove those releasables that are no longer required. </p> </section> <section><title>The build_as_arm attribute</title> <p>Use the <codeph>build_as_arm</codeph> statement to instruct an ARMV5 build to not build the project for the THUMB instruction set, but for the ARM instruction set. </p> <p>For details, see <xref href="GUID-D173BE00-1DE7-53D0-BBEF-CBF7CACB0193.dita">ARM/THUMB overrides</xref>. </p> </section> <section><title>Extension makefiles</title> <p>Use the keyword <codeph>makefile</codeph>, <codeph>nmakefile</codeph>, and/or <codeph>gnumakefile</codeph> to specify extension makefiles for your component. Extension makefiles can be used where build activities need to be carried out which are not catered for by generated makefiles. </p> <p> <codeph>makefile</codeph> and <codeph>nmakefile</codeph> invoke <filepath>nmake</filepath> on the specified file. <codeph>gnumakefile</codeph> invokes <filepath>make</filepath>. </p> <p>Build activities relating to particular <filepath>.mmp</filepath> files or extension makefiles are carried out in the order in which the .<filepath>mmp</filepath> files and extension makefiles are listed in the <filepath>bld.inf</filepath> file. Extension makefiles can be interspersed among the .<filepath>mmp</filepath> files. </p> <p>See <xref href="GUID-60B98AFE-6DE6-5086-B70C-F377562E60D9.dita">Extension makefiles targets</xref> for more details. </p> <p>Note that the extension makefiles are deprecated, use <codeph>PRJ_EXTENSIONS</codeph> instead. </p> </section> <section><title>Platform-specific use</title> <p>The <codeph>prj_mmpfiles</codeph> section is preprocessed for each platform listed in the <codeph>prj_platforms</codeph> section. </p> <p>If an .<filepath>mmp</filepath> file or extension makefile applies only to a particular platform, then place the item within </p> <codeblock id="GUID-993A8D09-5D18-5302-AD40-5FF5524ACF5B" xml:space="preserve">#if defined &lt;identifier&gt;
#endif</codeblock> <p>For example, if an .<filepath>mmp</filepath> file relates only to the WINS platform, specify the file as follows: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-57672374-BEFA-5DB6-9573-FF295B470F71" xml:space="preserve">#if defined(WINS)
&lt;mmp_file&gt;
#endif</codeblock> </section> </conbody></concept>