<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-8AB46129-0B35-539D-ACC8-2816A4EE2FC9"><title>Configuring the Start-up State Aware (SSA) Behaviour</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This page describes how to configure how ECom behaves during system boot. It is intended for Symbian Developers optimising or troubleshooting the boot process for a phone. </p> <p>Symbian platform has a Staged Start-up Architecture, driven by the Application Framework's System Starter component, which provides a consistent and customisable method of starting components at device boot. The architecture divides the start-up process into a number of <i>states</i>, which allows components to perform only those start-up actions which are necessary to the state. This allows the start-up sequence to be optimised, so that functionality that is immediately important to the user starts first. Components that use this architecture to manage their start-up are called Start-up State Aware (SSA). </p> <p>By default, ECom is SSA. It loads registration files for plug-ins on read-only internal drives first, while start-up is in the "Critical" state. Registration files for plug-ins on other drives (i.e. installed third-party plug-ins) are loaded later, when start-up moves to the "Non-critical" state. </p> <p>ECom's SSA behaviour can be disabled, in which case all plug-in registration files on all drives are loaded when ECom is started. To disable the SSA behaviour, place a file called <filepath>EComSrvr.ini</filepath> in either of the directories <filepath>C:\private\10009D8F</filepath> or <filepath>Z:\private\10009D8F</filepath>. The file can have any contents or be empty: its existence alone disables the SSA behaviour. To reenable SSA, remove <filepath>EComSrvr.ini</filepath> from both directories. </p> </conbody></concept>