<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-B467D117-6670-5614-9886-539CF654F9D8" xml:lang="en"><title>Call
Sub-session Tutorial</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context><p>Lines can have zero or more active calls. The call functionality
includes dialling a number, to waiting for incoming calls, and to hanging
up. A client can get status and capabilities information, and can be notified
of changes. </p><p>The call interface is provided by the <codeph>RCall</codeph> class. </p><p>This
section describes the Call sub-session functions and how to use them.</p><table id="GUID-A02C8979-43F9-4BB8-ACD3-A2E7BFD342BD">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Function</b></entry>
<entry><b>Description</b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>Open()</codeph></entry>
<entry>Call this function to open a line sub-session in a phone. Similarly
a line sub-session can be created in a server. The server is used when the
phone functionality for a line is not required. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>GetCaps()</codeph></entry>
<entry>Call this function to get the line capabilities. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>NotifyCapsChange()</codeph></entry>
<entry>Call this function to receive notification there are changes in a line.
To cancel a request, call the <codeph>NotifyCapsChangesCancel()</codeph> function. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>GetStatus()</codeph></entry>
<entry>Call this function to get the line status. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>GetHookStatus()</codeph></entry>
<entry>Call this function to get the status of a hook associated with the
line. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>EnumerateCall()</codeph></entry>
<entry>Call this function to get the number of calls opened in a line. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>GetCallInfo() </codeph></entry>
<entry>Call this function to get a detailed information about a call in a
line sub-session. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>GetInfo() </codeph></entry>
<entry>Call this function to get the information about the current line. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>NotifyIncomingCall() </codeph></entry>
<entry>Call this function to get notification of incoming calls. To cancel
an earlier request for the incoming call notification, call the <codeph>NotifyIncomingCallCancel()</codeph>. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>NotifyHookChange() </codeph></entry>
<entry>Call this function to get the notification of hook status changes. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>NotifyStatusChange() </codeph></entry>
<entry>Call this function to get the notification about the status changes
of a line. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>NotifyCallAdded() </codeph></entry>
<entry>To get the information about the new calls added to a line. Call the <codeph>NotifyCallAddedCancel()</codeph> function
to cancel an earlier request. </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></context>


</taskbody></task>