<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en" id="GUID-1B03B926-8EA9-50B4-8300-B82EC1CDF658"><title>PSY Tester Reference</title><shortdesc>This section contains reference information for PSY Tester. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><refbody><section><title>PSY Tester Menus Reference</title> <p>The table below describes the purpose of the menu options of the PSY Tester menus. </p> <table id="GUID-9D0A8D01-28B7-5528-8EF1-3A3A182AEC4F"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><thead><row><entry>Option</entry> <entry>Purpose</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <codeph>1-N: Select PSY</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A user selects a PSY to test by entering a number between 1 and N from the keyboard, where N is the number of installed PSYs. Testing for the selected PSY starts when the joystick is pressed (Enter for the emulator). This choice is only available in the PSY Tester List View. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>R: Test all PSYs</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Tests all installed PSYs. Testing starts immediately after typing R. This choice is only available in the PSY Tester List View. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>H: Help list</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Displays help for the user. This choice is available in all views. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>C: Cancel tests</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Cancels any tests that are running. Tests are cancelled immediately and a cancellation message is shown to the user. This choice is only available in the PSY Tester List View. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>U: Undo selection</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Erases any numeric values typed in the List View or Settings View (for example a PSY index value). For example, this is used when the user wants to change the PSY to be tested. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>L: List PSYs</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Updates the List View to list the installed PSYs starting at index 1. The List View is updated immedately when L is pressed. This choice is only available in the PSY Tester List View. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>Move joystick up / F / f: List former</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Lists the PSYs immediately before those currently shown on the screen (if there are more PSYs than can be shown on a single screen). This choice is only available in the PSY Tester List view. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>Move joystick down / N / n: List next </codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Lists the PSYs immediately after those currently shown on the screen (if there are more PSYs than can be shown on a single screen). This choice is only available in the PSY Tester List view. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>Move j<codeph>oystick right: Shift view Joystick left: Shift
                  view</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Shifts between views. Views are arranged as follows: </p> <p>Start View -&gt; List View &lt;-&gt; Settings View. </p> <p>It is nnot possible to move back to Start View having moved to List View. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>X: Exit PSY Tester</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Closes PSY Tester. Aborts any tests that are executing. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> <section><title>PSY Tester Key Table</title> <p>The table below is a translation list of the keys used instead of a joystick when running the PSY Tester application on an emulator. </p> <table id="GUID-93663E3B-9F21-5B49-97CB-66FE90E687B1"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><thead><row><entry>Device</entry> <entry>Emulator</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <codeph>Move joystick up</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <codeph>Arrow up </codeph>  </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>Move joystick down</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <codeph>Arrow down</codeph>  </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>Move joystick left</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <codeph>Arrow left</codeph>  </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>Move joystick right</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <codeph> Arrow right</codeph>  </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>Press joystick</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <codeph> Enter</codeph>  </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> </refbody><related-links><link href="GUID-20D774EC-4993-55F5-979C-AF80A264F777.dita"><linktext>PSY
                Tester</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-5EED00FE-F39D-5942-BA22-1F286EFF38AA.dita"><linktext>PSY
                Tester Tutorial</linktext> </link> </related-links></reference>