<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-6F6AEFB5-4D0E-5324-A3CD-1E533002DB45" xml:lang="en"><title>How
to Start the DNS Proxy Server</title><shortdesc>Describes how to start the DNS Proxy server. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context id="GUID-72ED7B81-4477-449D-B9DF-FC47D908B81E"><p>The DNS Proxy server starts up and shuts down with the DHCP server.
If an IAP is configured to start the DHCP server, it starts the DHCP server
which in turn starts the DNS Proxy server. </p><p><note> The DHCP server and
DNS Proxy server cannot be started on multiple interfaces and there is no
independent configuration for the DNS Proxy server in the CommsDB file.</note> </p><p>The
high level steps to start the DNS Proxy server are shown here: </p> </context>
<steps id="GUID-6CEAACE0-66C1-5D6E-A03F-8DAE5991F71C">
<step id="GUID-591D5A6E-7508-5861-B823-674F40F1EB5B"><cmd/>
<info>DHCP server starts the DNS Proxy server on DHCP server startup. </info>
<info>DHCP server starts when the interface configured to start DHCP server
in CommsDB is started by some application. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-25B1C614-AADF-5204-9053-C71A35BE4A74"><cmd/>
<info>DNS Proxy server on start up reads the initialization information from<filepath> resolver.ini</filepath> file. </info>
<info> Note: The DNS Proxy server initialization settings are stored in the <filepath>resolver.ini</filepath> file. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-716C280F-DB08-5E1B-887D-3BEC8F2B1E48"><cmd/>
<info>DNS Proxy server gets the connection information from the DHCP server
on startup. </info>
<info> Note: The <filepath>resolver.ini</filepath> file provides the downlink
connection information on which the DNS Proxy server starts receiving DNS
requests. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-4811BFD0-2EEA-5D83-A83E-1CAB4B220D36"><cmd/>
<info>DNS Proxy server opens an explicit socket on the connection and starts
receiving DNS requests from the standard DNS port 53. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-01DDE9E3-02C9-57EF-A4FB-F69DC1CC3992"><cmd/>
<info>DHCP server reads and obtains the hostname and suffix information from
CommsDB and updates the DNS Proxy server with the required information. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-A895F232-DCE4-5AB7-8E45-1407D4F382FE"><cmd/>
<info>DHCP server updates the DNS Proxy server database for each incoming
host. </info>
</step>
</steps>
<result id="GUID-3C2D6ACD-99B0-4E06-B2BE-86FD1953B446"><p>DNS Proxy server is active and is ready to resolve local names
and standard internet domain names. </p> </result>
</taskbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-28D13F63-9D72-5D70-BE81-3B4E54B3A8C1.dita"><linktext>DNS Proxy
Server                 Initialization Settings</linktext></link>
</related-links></task>