<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-CADC7578-5E96-58B2-9208-F7E53CA5EA32" xml:lang="en"><title>Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>SIP NAT Traversal Controller API is an ECOM plug-in API that provides the
connection between the SIP stack and an external UNSAF protocol module. The
Network Address Translator (NAT) devices are found between the SIP User Agent
(SIP UA) and SIP proxy, and have the UA as an outbound proxy. This creates
the problems to maintain SIP connectivity between the UA and the remaining
of the SIP network that are described as follows: </p>
<ul>
<li id="GUID-54670533-2436-5214-A2D8-FFE336B1433F"><p>The SIP
UA registers its contact to SIP registrar using the private IP address &amp;
UDP/TCP port pair within the contact URI. These addresses are not accessible
from the proxy. The NAT maps the private addresses to some other addresses
which can be public or private, in another address range. The proxy can access
the UA when you send the SIP requests and responses to addresses that the
NAT allocates for the UA. You must have the Contact header of the REGISTER
request to contain addresses allocated by the NAT for the UA, instead of the
private addresses of the UA. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7EF2F69F-C01F-5F41-8348-323580473E23"><p>The NAT allocates IP
addresses to the UA when the UA sends IP packets to a destination through
the NAT. The NAT type determines if the address-port pairs are either applicable
or dependent on the IP address and UDP or TCP port. The UA sends the IP packets
to the UDP or TCP port. </p> <p>Depending on the NAT type, the addresses within
the contact URI must be those that any device outside the NAT can see and
use or those that only the specific destination (SIP proxy in this case) can
see. To detect addresses the UA uses Unilateral Self-Address Fixing (UNSAF)
protocols defined within IETF. These protocols include the Simple Traversal
of UDP through NATs (STUN) or Traversal Using Relay NAT (TURN). </p><p>The
allocation created by NAT is not permanent. It expires if the UDP flow or
TCP connection between the end-points remains idle. To prevent expiration
the UA send keepalive messages within the flow to refresh the mapping. Different
types of keepalive messages are used like Carriage-Return/Line-Feed (CRLF)
sequences, OPTIONS requests or STUN binding requests</p></li>
</ul>
<p>To enable all these processes the SIP stack contains an ECOM plug-in API,
SIP NAT Traversal Controller API. The stack uses these plug-ins to access
and use a separate UNSAF protocol implementation. This implementation supports
protocols like STUN and TURN. These protocols enable the SIP stack to detect
the server reflexive and relayed addresses for the UA The protocols also implements
the keepalive messages for the flow toward the outbound proxy. </p>
</conbody></concept>