<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-5C17A2E7-DE18-5CFB-A5D5-421D427CD5DD" xml:lang="en"><title>Code
Organisation</title><shortdesc/><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This topic describes the source code for interrupt driven keyboard drivers
and related libraries that Symbian platform provides. </p>
<section id="GUID-50504915-1C7C-4DA7-859B-AD2D4D584EE5"><title>Keyboard driver</title> <p>In a reference board port, the <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file
for the keyboard driver is <filepath>...\template_variant\exkey_inttemplate.mmp</filepath>.
This is one of the PRJ_MMPFILES referenced in the template variant's <filepath>bld.inf</filepath> file
in the <filepath>...\template_variant\...</filepath> directory, and means
that the keyboard driver is built as part of the Variant. </p> <p>The source
for the driver is contained entirely within <filepath>...\template_variant\specific\keyboard_interrupt.cpp</filepath>. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-29C36C83-B2A2-467A-84FA-A683C09C7E68"><title>Key translation DLL (ektran.dll)</title> <p>This DLL is part
of Symbian platform generic code and is built as part of the Text Window Server
component. </p> <p>The mmp file is located in Symbian platform generic code
in <filepath>...\e32\wserv\ektran.mmp</filepath>, which defines the location
of the source files, header files and other dependencies. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-DE8BF244-419B-443E-BD72-9F425DF9540E"><title>Keyboard mapping DLL (ekdata.dl)</title> <p>The DLL is platform
specific. It is built as part of the Variant. </p> <p>The mmp file has a name
with format <filepath>cakd</filepath> <i>xx</i> <filepath>.mmp</filepath>,
where <i>xx</i> is the suffix that identifies the Variant in the Variant specific <filepath>.oby</filepath> file.
In the template port, the mmp file has the name <filepath>cakdtemplate.mmp</filepath>. </p> <p>The
source code for the tables is located in <filepath>keymap.cpp</filepath>,
and is located in the Variant specific directory. The template port provides
outline code. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>