<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-906165AD-D45D-54BB-8094-023F792F1632"><title>Preinstalling Packages</title><shortdesc>Device creators can use the <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> tool to preinstall SIS files to a data drive. The preinstalled packages can be flashed to an internal drive or removable media of a Symbian device. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><section><title>Procedure</title> <ol id="GUID-1EA41766-AC45-552A-A174-271ABF394142"><li id="GUID-3C5A36C3-2C75-5F1D-B095-11C5B233077B"><p>Create a package (PKG) file containing elements required to create an installation file. For details, see <xref href="GUID-43B4B4E7-413E-5D18-811C-4B9E38CDEB69.dita">PKG File Format</xref> and <xref href="GUID-63293544-EACF-5F55-BBB5-7A471B4F9A69.dita">PKG File Format for Preinstallation</xref>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-52C66B2B-5EFD-5812-BC07-C9F0DEAEBAAD"><p>Create a SIS file using the <xref href="GUID-4BDC9F63-83A1-53A5-91A0-B092AA821755.dita">MakeSIS</xref> or <xref href="GUID-AA555CC1-5CFF-5609-9191-8970F32BA255.dita">CreateSIS</xref> tools. For details, see <xref href="GUID-03BBEA31-3266-5B1C-9017-4EE7EA4AF1A8.dita">Creating and Signing an Installation File</xref>. </p> <p> <b>Note</b>: A SIS file is not required to be signed for preinstallation. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-FB9800D3-EE91-52C9-A1B2-422DA17BD623"><p>Run the <xref href="GUID-8792CCC3-B70F-53FC-B394-B0069AF90349.dita">InterpretSIS</xref> tool. Arguments can be specified in either of the following ways: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-811DF4CB-C6D7-5D50-8F5B-64955840F4F2"><p>Specify all the parameters at the command prompt as shown in the following example: </p> <p><userinput>interpretsis -z .\romdrive -c .\cdrive -s simple.sis -w info</userinput> </p> </li> <li id="GUID-2468B14A-7785-59A4-980C-2EEC2E746EDA"><p>Include the parameters in a file and use the <codeph>–p</codeph> option to specify the file at the command prompt as shown in the following example: </p> <p><userinput>interpretsis –p parameterfile.txt</userinput> </p> <p>The following parameters are mandatory: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-E11BD0DC-C187-53B4-9FE6-5A1B21B872B5"><p> <b>The system drive </b> </p> <p>This parameter is defined using the <codeph>–c</codeph> option and represents the default location of SIS files installation on the PC. The SISRegistry entries and hash files are always created on this drive. The default system drive is <filepath>c</filepath>. This can be changed using the <codeph>–d</codeph> option. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-223E33E1-9DA9-5F76-B580-502B65DA5D87"><p> <b> The ROM files </b>  </p> <p>This parameter ensures that a SIS file does not incorrectly eclipse a file present in the ROM. It also ensures that an executable file installed by the SIS file does not cause a SID duplication error. </p> </li> </ul> </li> </ul> <p> <b>Notes</b>: </p> <p>To install multiple SIS files, run <codeph>InterprteSIS</codeph> at the command prompt in either of the following ways: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-B260BC6D-E8B3-599F-8A9C-5BE948826EB3"><p><userinput>interpretsis –z c:\romdir -c c:\sysdir –s SA.sis,SP.sis,PU.sis</userinput> </p> </li> <li id="GUID-0D129A06-0468-552A-983F-5D74837B9674"><p>You can use the <codeph>–s</codeph> option to separate installation files. </p> <p><userinput>interpretsis –z c:\romdir -c c:\sysdir –s SA.sis –s SP.sis –s PU.sis</userinput> </p> </li> </ul> </li> </ol> </section> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-43B4B4E7-413E-5D18-811C-4B9E38CDEB69.dita"><linktext>PKG File Format</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-63293544-EACF-5F55-BBB5-7A471B4F9A69.dita"><linktext>PKG File
                Format for Preinstallation</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>