<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-CE18D940-FEB9-5678-A3CC-AA8A979AD4DA"><title>set</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p><userinput>set [ {+|-}options | {+|-}o [ option_name ] ] ... [ {+|-}A [ name ] ] [ arg ... ]</userinput> </p> <p>Set the options for the shell and/or set the positional parameters, or declare and set an array. </p> <table id="GUID-6BEB3E74-C8E4-53F2-BD9E-0017A7DBEEF0"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><thead><row><entry>Option</entry> <entry>Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <codeph>-s</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Causes the specified arguments to be sorted before assigning them to the positional parameters (or to the array <codeph>name</codeph> if <codeph>-A</codeph> is used). </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>+s </codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Sort arguments in descending order. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>-o</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Flags may be specified by <codeph>name</codeph> using the <codeph>-o</codeph> option. If no option <codeph>name</codeph> is supplied with <codeph>-o</codeph>, the current option states are printed. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>+o</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Printed in a form that can be used as input to the shell. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>-A</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The <codeph>name</codeph> is set to an array containing the given <codeph>arg</codeph> s; if no <codeph>name</codeph> is specified, all arrays are printed together with their values. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>+A</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>If <codeph>name</codeph> is an array, the given arguments will replace the initial elements of that array; if no <codeph>name</codeph> is specified, all arrays are printed without their values. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> <p>The behaviour of arguments after <codeph>-A </codeph> <codeph>name</codeph> or <codeph>+A</codeph>  <codeph>name</codeph> depends on whether the option <codeph>KSH_ARRAYS</codeph> is set. If it is not set, all arguments following <codeph>name</codeph> are treated as values for the array, regardless of their form. If the option is set, normal option processing continues at that point; only regular arguments are treated as values for the array. This means that </p> <p> <codeph>set -A array -x -- foo </codeph>  </p> <p>If the <codeph>-A </codeph> flag is not present, but there are arguments beyond the options, the positional parameters are set. If the option list (if any) is terminated by <codeph>--</codeph>, and there are no further arguments, the positional parameters will be unset. </p> <p>If no arguments and no <codeph>--</codeph> are given, then the names and values of all parameters are printed on the standard output. If the only argument is <codeph>+</codeph>, the names of all parameters are printed. </p> </conbody></concept>