<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-CC145109-F052-5F75-9A74-0FE4D1DAF8F2"><title>Wireless LAN Parameters</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>Each WLAN parameter is stored in an Elementary File (EF), which is stored in a USIM Service Table (UST) on the Universal Subscriber Identity Module (USIM) of the phone. The ETelMM API allows the client to retrieve the following WLAN parameters: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-FB6003FA-A934-5A9C-8997-59D86B7DA1F1"><p> <xref href="GUID-CC145109-F052-5F75-9A74-0FE4D1DAF8F2.dita#GUID-CC145109-F052-5F75-9A74-0FE4D1DAF8F2/GUID-71A95833-C875-5592-82ED-DB33835DDA18">Pseudonym</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-9010F63D-A33F-5EFE-B151-C252EE11D737"><p> <xref href="GUID-CC145109-F052-5F75-9A74-0FE4D1DAF8F2.dita#GUID-CC145109-F052-5F75-9A74-0FE4D1DAF8F2/GUID-0EBF7EE2-7133-5E2C-ADB2-28C7303E6C6A">Re-authentication identity</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-325ECF6B-B6DF-535B-9B36-37001C1561CC"><p> <xref href="GUID-CC145109-F052-5F75-9A74-0FE4D1DAF8F2.dita#GUID-CC145109-F052-5F75-9A74-0FE4D1DAF8F2/GUID-35A0345B-FEB9-5FA8-9A01-8B93330589E6">User controlled list of WLAN PLMNs</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-F515BD79-0569-521D-A63A-4116DA686E1E"><p> <xref href="GUID-CC145109-F052-5F75-9A74-0FE4D1DAF8F2.dita#GUID-CC145109-F052-5F75-9A74-0FE4D1DAF8F2/GUID-1D2719B9-AB2F-5EC7-A877-613FAFDEE6EB">Operator controlled list of WLAN PLMNs</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-380124E5-CECA-5F14-93AF-53B334DF00A7"><p> <xref href="GUID-CC145109-F052-5F75-9A74-0FE4D1DAF8F2.dita#GUID-CC145109-F052-5F75-9A74-0FE4D1DAF8F2/GUID-94C5FAF9-87C2-552F-8B19-5A65F77DB3BA">User controlled list of WLAN SIDs (Specific Identifiers)</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-9086D810-5006-57EE-93C6-761C6BD12EAB"><p> <xref href="GUID-CC145109-F052-5F75-9A74-0FE4D1DAF8F2.dita#GUID-CC145109-F052-5F75-9A74-0FE4D1DAF8F2/GUID-ABB49A1C-53EF-511B-9D31-ECC75D0C8EC0">Operator controlled list of WLAN SIDs</xref>  </p> </li> </ul> <section id="GUID-71A95833-C875-5592-82ED-DB33835DDA18"><title>Pseudonym</title> <p>The Pseudonym is a temporary identifier used to find the subscriber identification. The Pseudonym is defined in EF<sub>Pseudo</sub>. Service number 59 in the UST indicates that the USIM supports Pseudonym. </p> </section> <section id="GUID-0EBF7EE2-7133-5E2C-ADB2-28C7303E6C6A"><title>Re-authentication identity</title> <p>The re-authentication identity is defined in EF<sub>WRI</sub>. This elementary file contains the following parameters that are used in the process of re-authentication: Master Key and Counter Value. Service number 66 in the UST indicates that USIM supports re-authentication. </p> </section> <section id="GUID-35A0345B-FEB9-5FA8-9A01-8B93330589E6"><title>User controlled list of WLAN PLMNs</title> <p>The EF<sub>UPLMNWLAN</sub> contains the coding for preferred PLMNs and is used for WLAN PLMN selection. The information in this elementary file is determined by user. The first PLMN entry in the list indicates the highest priority and the last PLMN entry indicates the lowest. Service number 60 in the UST indicates that USIM supports a user controlled list of WLAN PLMNs. </p> </section> <section id="GUID-1D2719B9-AB2F-5EC7-A877-613FAFDEE6EB"><title>Operator controlled list of WLAN PLMNs</title> <p>The EF<sub>OPLMNWLAN</sub> contains the operator controlled list of PLMNs and is used for WLAN PLMN selection. The information in this elementary file is determined by the operator. The first PLMN entry in the list indicates the highest priority and the last PLMN entry indicates the lowest. Service number 61 in the UST indicates that USIM supports an operator controlled list of WLAN PLMNs. </p> </section> <section id="GUID-94C5FAF9-87C2-552F-8B19-5A65F77DB3BA"><title>User controlled list of WLAN SIDs</title> <p>The EF<sub>UWSIDL</sub> contains the user controlled list of WLAN SIDs and is used for WLAN selection based on the priority defined by the user. The first entry in the list indicates the highest priority and the last entry indicates the lowest. Service number 62 in the UST indicates that USIM supports a user controlled list of WLAN SIDs. </p> </section> <section id="GUID-ABB49A1C-53EF-511B-9D31-ECC75D0C8EC0"><title>Operator controlled list of WLAN SIDs</title> <p>The EF<sub>OWSIDL</sub> contains the operator controlled list of WLAN SIDs and is used for WLAN selection based on the priority defined by the operator. The first entry in the list indicates the highest priority and the last entry indicates the lowest. Service number 63 in the UST indicates that USIM supports an operator controlled list of WLAN SIDs. </p> </section> </conbody></concept>