<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-3B0602F1-4294-43C4-9E7A-B1A33291C22F" xml:lang="en"><title>Establishing
a connection with destination networks</title><shortdesc>Destination networks, also known as Service Network Access Points
(SNAPs) avoid the connectivity problems that are related to the access point
being fixed for the duration of the data connection.  With the availability
of WLAN and other data bearers, the number of access points has grown considerably.
 With WLAN, the availability of an access point can change frequently.  A
fixed access point in selection often leads to a poor access point choice.
Because the network environment is now more dynamic, you can have either a
safe but slow connection, or a fast but unreliable connection. In practice
this means that the application is either stuck with using GPRS or the user
must continuously change the settings to point to the WLAN access point that
happens to be available.  A fixed access point leads to non-optimal usage
of available connections, especially with applications that use long-lasting
data connections.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<prereq id="GUID-9A30000D-83AF-40B7-B0DD-E9AFFD1B7019">       <p>Applications
should monitor the connection state by using platform services (such as Connection
Monitor Server API) and avoid polling and keep-alives. If the application
protocol mandates the use of timers, they should be tuned so that the control
data over the air is minimized. </p>     </prereq>
<steps id="GUID-4DD07DEC-6017-4237-BE46-1D69E5FBD744-GENID-1-12-1-17-1-1-7-1-3-2">
<step id="GUID-9A69E5AD-E938-4092-A8C2-CB65C37C8962-GENID-1-12-1-17-1-1-7-1-3-2-1"><cmd><xref href="GUID-E2E2FACF-5D4F-43E8-8B53-B268252CF572.dita">Defining
Connection Management Items</xref></cmd>
</step>
<step id="GUID-725900FE-86E4-4A8F-A896-1F1661B4C1BB"><cmd><xref href="GUID-A2F691C8-9525-4028-BF82-70E9D50630C6.dita">Prompting
the user to select a destination network</xref></cmd>
</step>
<step id="GUID-96317261-F1CC-423C-815E-70CD4F0A3AD7"><cmd><xref href="GUID-DBF6760F-D209-4B8F-89D5-A7EFFF7959E2.dita">Starting
the Connection through the Destination Network</xref></cmd>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody></task>