<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-60F25F66-8CC5-46BF-9274-BDE8F9A10B74" xml:lang="en"><title>OMA
DRM v1.0</title><shortdesc>The OMA DRM v1.0 specification enables content providers to associate
certain rights to the content objects for defining how the content can be
used. The Symbian platform supports the mandatory features of the OMA DRM
v1.0 specification.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The Symbian platform supports the following OMA DRM 1.0 features:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Forward-lock</p></li>
<li><p>Combined delivery</p></li>
<li><p>Separate delivery</p></li>
</ul>
<p>In addition, the Symbian platform supports time-based constraints for automated
content, such as background images, UI themes, ring tones, and alarm tones.
However, count-based constraints for automated content are not allowed.</p>
<p>The protection of themes and native applications covers not only the SIS
package itself but also the data after the installation. The protection is
achieved through encrypting essential theme and application data (chosen by
the developer). Protected applications and themes can make use of DRM mechanisms,
such as expiry dates or online rights refresh.</p>
<note><p>For file formats that are not DRM protected, the forwarding is restricted
according to the closed content list.</p></note>
<p>Use the <xref format="html" href="specs/guides/OMA_DRM_CAF_Agent_API_Specification/OMA_DRM_CAF_Agent_API_Specification.html" scope="peer">DRM CAF Agent API</xref> to implement the OMA DRM v1.0 features
in applications.</p>
<section id="GUID-32071397-5AFA-4FB2-BC9F-C4920B7BBC8C"><title>Forward-lock</title><p>Forward-lock
is a simple mechanism that prevents content from leaving the mobile device.
It provides basic copy protection that protects the rights of content owners.
The content is delivered to the device in a DRM message without associating
a rights object to the content. Forward-lock content can be opened and played
freely in the given device but cannot be forwarded or used in any other device.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-EF3B7671-9309-419A-ACC8-8C7FF266B9FA"><title>Combined delivery</title><p>Combined
delivery is similar to OMA forward-lock, but additional usage rights can be
added to the content, such as one-time use, or use for a week. This allows
the previewing of content, or the adoption of various new business models
by applying different usage rights. The content and rights are delivered to
the device within the same DRM message. The device enforces the usage of the
content according to the rights. The device does not allow forwarding the
right or the content to any other device.</p><note><p>Forward-lock and combined
delivery protected content is received to the device as plain text, but is
encrypted as soon as it is received. After the content has been encrypted,
it can only be opened and consumed in the device where it was originally downloaded.</p></note></section>
<section id="GUID-389B54FE-BCEF-4462-9513-147D4ED4565F"><title>Separate delivery</title><p>Separate
delivery is similar to combined delivery but with added security. Content
is delivered as encrypted files separately from usage rights, which are delivered
via a different channel. Separate delivery also enables the superdistribution
business model, in which DRM-protected content can be sent from mobile device
to mobile device, for example sending the content as part of an MMS to a friend.
The recipient can then acquire a license to get a preview or buy the content.
This makes viral marketing a potentially powerful concept. </p><p>In separate
delivery, the content is in the format defined in the OMA DRM Content Format
specification. The content is encrypted using a symmetric encryption key called
content encryption key (CEK). The content can be decrypted only with the same
key that has been used for encryption. With separate delivery, the encrypted
content is delivered to the device separately from the rights (typically over
HTTP download or MMS). The rights object containing the CEK is delivered to
the device using connectionless WAP Push over SMS.</p><p>Symbian applications
that deal with combined delivery and separate delivery protected media objects
are capable of enforcing the usage rights constraints that are defined in
the rights objects. The applications are able to detect when the usage rights
related to a combined delivery and separate delivery protected media object
have become expired. </p><p>The content provider can specify a timeout value
for the delivery of the rights object when delivering content over HTTP. The
user is notified if the rights object does not arrive within the specified
time. The rights object related to a separate delivery protected media object
can also be updated when it expires.</p> </section>
<section id="GUID-4F3BFECA-CBF4-4CFE-9C9D-EADFF4C47D0B"><title>Supported file
types</title><p>The file types that are defined in OMA DRM v1.0 correspond
to the following delivery methods:</p><ul>
<li><p>Delivery message (.dm)</p><p>Contains the content. It is used in both
OMA forward-lock and combined delivery. In an OMA forward-lock delivery message,
the file contains only the protected content, whereas in a combined delivery
message, the file contains both the rights (defined in ODRL) and the content.
The MIME type for this file type is <codeph>application/vnd.oma.drm.message</codeph>. </p></li>
<li><p>DRM content format (.dcf)</p><p>Contains the encrypted content. It
is used in separate delivery where the content is encrypted into the message
without the rights. The key used to encrypt the content is sent separately
with the rights to the device. The MIME type for this file type is <codeph>application/vnd.oma.drm.content</codeph>.</p></li>
<li><p>DRM rights object, binary (.drc)</p><p>Contains the rights object,
specified in binary, as well as the key used to encrypt the content in the
DCF file. The MIME type for this file type is <codeph>application/vnd.oma.drm.rights+wbxml</codeph>.</p></li>
<li><p>DRM rights object, clear text (.dr)</p><p>Contains the rights object,
specified in clear text, as well as the key used to encrypt the content in
the DCF file. The MIME type for this file type is <codeph>application/vnd.oma.drm.rights+xml</codeph>.</p></li>
</ul></section>
<section id="GUID-AE6B6119-D209-4777-A6D8-EBF8B7D8DB6A"><title>Downloading
DRM-protected files</title><p>You can use the following methods to download
DRM-protected files:</p><ul>
<li><p>HTTP download</p></li>
<li><p>Multimedia messaging service (MMS)</p></li>
</ul><p>You can use the following methods to download files in the DCF format:</p><ul>
<li><p>MMS</p></li>
<li><p>HTTP</p></li>
<li><p>Bluetooth</p></li>
<li><p>IrDa</p></li>
<li><p>Multimedia card (MMC)</p></li>
<li><p>E-mail</p></li>
<li><p>Any other connectivity method that supports file transfer</p></li>
</ul><p>For more information, see <xref href="http://library.forum.nokia.com/topic/Design_and_User_Experience_Library/GUID-C7E6ACA8-94B4-4A55-A2F2-C4E6EBA46FD4.html" scope="external">Video distribution channels</xref>.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>