<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-7B275129-5EF7-4B27-B603-3BDE2C650A93" xml:lang="en"><title>Queries</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>A query is a state where the software waits for user input. Queries are
used in situations with more than one ways to proceed, when the application
needs data from the user, or when it is necessary to make sure the user knows
what is happening. A query must be exited before the application can proceed.</p>
<p>Queries are displayed in pop-up windows. The following query types can
be used:</p>
<table id="GUID-90850312-4A91-46D7-AC86-DC6F1B7E4BA9">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.39*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.61*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><p>Query types</p></entry>
<entry valign="top"><p>Description</p></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Confirmation query</p></entry>
<entry><p>A question or notice with one or two possible responses. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>List query</p></entry>
<entry><p>A question with a selection of more than two possible (pre-defined)
responses in a list. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Grid query</p></entry>
<entry><p>A question with a selection of more than two possible (pre-defined)
responses in a grid.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Multi-selection list query</p></entry>
<entry><p>Presents a list of items; the user can select any number of them. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Data query</p></entry>
<entry><p>Used for numeric or textual input.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Message query</p></entry>
<entry><p>Used for various purposes in queries that are longer than one screen.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<section id="GUID-53619735-6F0F-401F-AE62-154EDF75A0C3"><title>Using
queries in C++ applications</title><p>The APIs to use for queries are the
Queries API, <xref format="html" href="specs/guides/Dialogs_API_Specification/Dialogs_API_Specification.html" scope="peer">Dialogs API</xref>, and the <xref format="html" href="specs/guides/Popups_API_Specification/Popups_API_Specification.html" scope="peer">Popups API</xref>. For implementation information, see <xref format="html" href="specs/guides/Dialogs_API_Specification/Dialogs_API_Specification.html#Dialogs_API_Specification.topic3" scope="peer">Using the Dialogs API</xref>.</p><p>Query dialogs are dialogs
that can be used to require user input or user selection. All query dialogs
derive from <xref href="GUID-DD9C643C-223D-3B70-AEBA-5BF5C5E181ED.dita"><apiname>CAknQueryDialog</apiname></xref>, which inherits <xref href="GUID-FBE5021B-FA5C-3306-B836-601E4BCB11E4.dita"><apiname>CAknDialog</apiname></xref>.
There are two types of queries: local and global queries. Local query dialogs
are local to a certain application. That means they are only displayed within
this application. Global query dialogs are system-wide queries, and are shown
topmost even when another application moves to the foreground. Query dialogs
require resource definitions when they are used in your code. </p><note><p>To
have a header pane, the <codeph>AVKON_HEADING</codeph> component should be
specified as the first dialog line in the resource description.</p></note><p>At
runtime, the dialog's header pane (<xref href="GUID-5FEC2E62-57DB-328C-8E13-4990F9308BF6.dita"><apiname>CAknPopupHeadingPane</apiname></xref>)
can be obtained by calling the method <xref href="GUID-DD9C643C-223D-3B70-AEBA-5BF5C5E181ED.dita#GUID-DD9C643C-223D-3B70-AEBA-5BF5C5E181ED/GUID-B7AC6A1B-1C68-38AC-8B5F-D6199AA272D4"><apiname>CAknQueryDialog::QueryHeading()</apiname></xref>.</p><p>The
following parts are available for modification from the class <codeph>CAknQueryDialog</codeph>:</p><ul>
<li><p>Data query </p><ul>
<li><p>Header text </p></li>
<li><p>Header image/animation </p></li>
<li><p>Prompt text </p></li>
<li><p>Edit indicator (can be removed) </p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Confirmation query </p><ul>
<li><p>Prompt text </p></li>
<li><p>Image/animation </p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>List query </p><ul>
<li><p>Header text </p></li>
<li><p>Header image/animation </p></li>
<li><p>List type (Single, SingleHeading, SingleGraphic, SingleGraphicHeading) </p></li>
</ul></li>
</ul><p>The following example illustrates the resource definition for the
Secret Editor Query, which contains a Secret Editor, resides inside the dialog.
The values for flags, type, id, and control are specific to the query dialog.
These values are enumerated in the file <codeph>avkon.hrh</codeph>, which
is in the <codeph>./epoc32/include</codeph> folder.</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">RESOURCE DIALOG r_aknexquery_code_query
    {
    flags = EGeneralQueryFlags
    buttons = R_AVKON_SOFTKEYS_OK_CANCEL;
    items =
        {
        DLG_LINE
            {
            type = EAknCtQuery;
            id = EGeneralQuery;
            control = EGeneralQueryFlags
                {
                layout = ECodeLayout;
                label = label_text;
                control = SECRETED
                    {
                    num_letters = 8;
                    };
                };
            }
        };
    }
</codeblock><p>The query in the above example includes a secret editor. For
information on implementing secret editors, see the <xref format="html" href="specs/guides/Editors_API_Specification/Editors_API_Specification.html" scope="peer">Editors API</xref>.  </p><p><b>See also</b>:</p></section>
</conbody></concept>