<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-FD733414-DDB2-5748-A193-6758FADEFEC1" xml:lang="en"><title>Specifying
the Domain Name for Certificate Validation</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This tutorial explains how to configure an IMAP, POP or SMTP email account
to specify domain name for validation when connecting to a server using secure
TLS or SSL sockets. </p>

<section><title>Introduction</title> <p>To enhance the certification-security
checks when connecting to a destination network, you must connect an IMAP,
POP or SMTP email account to a server over TLS or SSL, and validate the domain
name in the received certificate against a domain name specified in the email
account settings. If no domain name is specified (configured) in the email
account settings, then validate the domain name in the received certificate
against the address of the server being connected to. </p> </section>
<section><title>Procedure</title> <ol id="GUID-5659C41D-7686-55DF-9395-C557BCA316F3">
<li id="GUID-777E31ED-5421-5D22-B901-48ACE7A5BF4F"><p>Create an instance of
the <xref href="GUID-A7EF08E6-82AF-3577-B942-ABD532EDB7FE.dita"><apiname>CEmailAccounts</apiname></xref> class. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DE6A60A9-3B75-5FBB-BF06-EFF3543D644F"><p>Create an instance of
the <xref href="GUID-9CAB9BE5-7233-3A01-A906-756177CF4460.dita"><apiname>CImIAPPreferences</apiname></xref> class to be used by the email service. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-EFD0FDE0-95C5-5B68-B05C-951AC4DE87E2"><p>Create an instance of
the <codeph>CIm&lt;protocol&gt;Settings</codeph> class. </p> <p>Where, &lt;protocol&gt;
is either Imap4, Pop3, or Smtp. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-1D5C3A23-4D86-5531-9233-4A097C47B206"><p>Populate the <xref href="GUID-9CAB9BE5-7233-3A01-A906-756177CF4460.dita"><apiname>CImIAPPreferences</apiname></xref> class
and the <codeph>CIm&lt;protocol&gt;Settings</codeph> class from central repository
(CenRep) using <xref href="GUID-A7EF08E6-82AF-3577-B942-ABD532EDB7FE.dita"><apiname>CEmailAccounts</apiname></xref> <codeph>::Load&lt;protocol&gt;IapSettingsL</codeph> function. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A7803679-66AC-540F-BF1C-2663F2429AFD"><p>Use the <codeph>CIm&lt;protocol&gt;Settings::</codeph> <xref href="GUID-86633B7D-5AB8-3BBD-BB54-4697211AC86E.dita"><apiname>SetTlsSslDomainL()</apiname></xref>,
function to specify the appropriate domain name. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-FA73B306-79A5-5735-9755-6C7DAA8BA1CF"><p>Store the updated settings
classes to CenRep using the <xref href="GUID-A7EF08E6-82AF-3577-B942-ABD532EDB7FE.dita"><apiname>CEmailAccounts</apiname></xref> <codeph>::Save&lt;protocol&gt;IapSettingsL</codeph> function. </p> </li>
</ol><note> All instances of &lt;protocol&gt; in the preceding steps are either <codeph>Imap4</codeph>, <codeph>Pop3</codeph>,
or <codeph>Smtp</codeph>.</note></section>
<section><title>See also</title> <p> <xref href="GUID-24860917-0FE2-5C8F-B436-96928350996E.dita">Bearer
Mobility Overview</xref>  </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>