<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-520F620F-03CE-5C4E-9783-745D2740F648" xml:lang="en"><title>Supplementary
Services Provided</title><shortdesc>This section describes the supplementary service information provided
by the telephony API for applications. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The information available depends on the network. Information available
for all networks include call barring and call waiting. Information available
only in the GSM and WCDMA networks includes call forwarding and caller identification. </p>
<section id="GUID-39EB5CE9-3024-54B1-9F7C-7D19179262BF"><title>Call barring</title> <p>The
call carrying status indicates whether call barring is active, inactive or
not available. The phones have different call barring settings for different
conditions. For example, a phone might bar outbound calls but accept inbound
calls. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-D8E03693-C337-5F6D-8598-1836A7A7EB85"><title>Call waiting</title> <p>The
call waiting status indicates if the call waiting service is active, inactive
or not available. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-42879377-6D68-5D67-9719-F3DBC4BEF6DF"><title>Call forwarding</title> <p>The
call forwarding status indicates whether call forwarding is active, inactive,
not provisioned or not available. The phones can have different call forwarding
settings for different conditions. For instance, a phone might forward calls
when the subscriber is busy, but not when the subscriber does not respond. </p> <p> <b>Note</b>:
This information is only available on GSM and WCDMA networks. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-B9D15995-C23A-5CAD-98DC-8A916A54C554"><title>Caller Line
identification</title> <p><b>Calling Line Identification Presentation </b> </p> <p>The Calling Line
Identification Presentation (CLIP) provides the number of the remote party
that calls your phone. </p> <p> <b>Note</b>: This information is only available
on GSM and WCDMA networks. </p> <p><b>Calling Line Identification Restriction </b> </p> <p>The Calling Line
Identification Restriction (CLIR) enables the caller to hide the number to
be displayed to the remote party. </p> <p> <b>Note</b>: This information is
only available on GSM and WCDMA networks. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>