<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-B35E6CAD-C9C8-467E-85CF-9781DEC8BF7C" xml:lang="en"><title>Text
editing</title><shortdesc>This section describes the common principles of text editing, focusing
on Latin based scripts. Requirements of other writing systems and input methods,
such as those used for Chinese or Arabic, are not covered in detail.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Character input is accomplished using the keyboard. S60 supports both a
full QWERTY keyboard and the ITU-T standard for numeric keypads. It specifies
the mapping of Latin (English) characters to the keys, assigning three or
four letters to each Numeric key from 2 to 9. The input of a specific character
can happen either by repeated key presses within a time-out, or using some
language-specific algorithm that tries to find the correct characters according
to the produced key sequence.</p>
<p>For more information on text input on touch devices, see <xref href="GUID-57B7DA8C-A62F-4C65-B754-47D9F5E76416.dita">Text
input</xref>.</p>
<p>Some keys, such as the star (*), hash (#) key, clear key, and edit key,
have specific  functions assigned to them during text editing. The functions
depend on the keyboard type (ITU-T or QWERTY) and whether text prediction
or multi-tapping mode is active. The four available modes are:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>ITU-T in multi-tapping mode.</p></li>
<li><p>ITU-T with text prediction ON.</p></li>
<li><p>QWERTY keyboard with text prediction ON.</p></li>
<li><p>QWERTY keyboard with text prediction OFF.</p></li>
</ul>
<table id="GUID-BFD539DB-0C98-4FAF-85CC-63EC012C9F48"><title>Specific key
functions on ITU-T keypad</title>
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry><p>Key</p></entry>
<entry><p>Function on ITU-T keypad</p></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Numeric key 1</p></entry>
<entry><p>Punctuation. The most used punctuation characters are available
using repeated key presses within a time-out.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Star (*) key</p></entry>
<entry><p>In the alpha mode, offers the next match in Predictive Text input.
In the alpha mode, a long press opens the special characters table, where
the complete set of punctuation and other characters are displayed. One character
can be picked at a time with Selection key. It is also possible to feed in
more than one character without having to re-open the list by pressing 5 on
the desired characters one after another and completing the selection by pressing
Selection key on the last item. In a typical number mode, produces a * character,
repeated presses produce other characters allowed within phone numbers: +,
p, w.</p><p>In devices with no Edit key, a short press of the Star (*) key
opens the editing menu and a long press opens the special characters table.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Hash (#) key</p></entry>
<entry><p>In the alpha mode, changes the character case (upper case, lower
case, text case). In a typical number mode, produces a # character.In devices
with no Edit key, a short press changes the current case and the text prediction
mode (ON/OFF), and a long key press (together with the Arrow keys) selects
text.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Clear key</p></entry>
<entry><p>Clears the previous character from the cursor. In case more characters
are selected, clears all the selected characters.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Edit key </p></entry>
<entry><p>Press and release: opens the editing menu (see <xref href="GUID-2E0F793F-3D80-4303-AF48-C7341F417DC9.dita">Editing
menu</xref>). Selects characters when pressed simultaneously with the Arrow
keys (see <xref href="GUID-C7D026AF-9C07-4221-AEDE-8CC0654A9D57.dita">Selecting
text</xref>).</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<section id="GUID-BD3EF056-DE12-4500-8924-22427DAE2100"><title>Using
text editing in applications</title><p>The API to use for providing text editing
functionality is the <xref format="html" href="specs/guides/Editors_API_Specification/Editors_API_Specification.html" scope="peer">Editors API</xref>. For implementation information, see <xref format="html" href="specs/guides/Editors_API_Specification/Editors_API_Specification.html#Editors_API_Specification.topic3" scope="peer">Using the Editors API</xref>.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>