<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-A3F8A323-EF4B-537F-A3D1-27A2048D5A11"><title>Universal Software Install Framework Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>USIF provides uniform standard interfaces for installing, registering, verifying, restoring and uninstalling software packages on a device, such as SIS files. </p> <section id="GUID-C173A2AB-C157-451B-96A8-02581C0F32F3"><title>Description</title> <p>USIF provides support for three areas of functionality: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-65FEEB4B-F17D-5325-9CAA-73FEFEC9F967"><p> <b>Install and Uninstall</b>: USIF provides a standard interfaces for installing, upgrading or uninstalling software components on a phone. Plug-in software installers can be created for different package formats </p> </li> <li id="GUID-4A22ABBB-5EDC-51C0-A0F0-C33592A0AE95"><p> <b>Transaction support</b>: USIF maintains the integrity of the file system by using atomic file system transactions during installation. Transactions are committed on success or rolled back on failure. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-115F6021-837E-58DD-8D10-A49A7781C368"><p> <b>Software component management registration</b>: This involves Software Component Registry (SCR) , which USIF uses to maintain a registry for managing of both native and non-native software packages installed on the phone. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section id="GUID-B6242A22-0EBA-4ADC-9F32-83045E687C46"><title>Components</title> <p>USIF includes the following components: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-BA3F62D7-987D-59BD-90AE-606DBE3DB695"><p> <b>Software Installation Framework (SIF)</b>: The Software Installation Framework (SIF) provides a uniform API for managing installation, uninstallation or upgrading of software on a device phone. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-2F6F58CA-7DC0-5ACA-98EA-83F7221D03D7"><p> <b>Software Transaction Services (STS)</b>: Software Transaction Services (STS) help applications to maintain file system integrity during the installation. STS helps restoration of a file system if an installation gets interrupted or fails for any reason, such as battery drain or server crash. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-56A2D6B6-7F91-55FA-829C-860B3A829CDC"><p> <b>Software Component Registry (SCR)</b>: The Software Component Registry (SCR) is a unified registry for managing native components and packages (installed using SIS files), and non-native software packages, such as SIS installer and Python. </p> </li> </ul> </section> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-016876C8-7E13-5A3E-9A15-992B7EEEEA38.dita"><linktext>SCR</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-9CB23B06-07E9-5927-AB79-D1FC28B42DFE.dita"><linktext>SIF</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-16406797-20EA-5469-B036-0B46B6162385.dita"><linktext>STS</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>