<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-D76D4788-E65A-59A8-8DD9-7A8096E115D5"><title>Installing a Font File</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>The font store automatically loads all files in <filepath>\resources\fonts\</filepath> on all drives at startup. The search path is soft to hard ( Y:, X:, W:, ..., C:, B:, A:, Z:) and if two or more files have the same name the first one found is used. This means that files in the ROM (Z:) can be replaced with files on user drives. </p> <p>The font store assumes that the files are in an appropriate format (see). Unsupported font files require a corresponding font rasterizer plug-in. </p> <p>To install a font file at startup: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-976FF5A7-F54E-5509-B090-808F20F71D99"><p>Copy it into <filepath>\resources\fonts\</filepath> on any drive. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-BC571AC6-24BD-5962-9F47-4B0A21019586"><p>Restart the device to restart the Font and Bitmap server. </p> </li> </ul> <p>It is also possible to load a font file dynamically at run time. It is not possible to install a new font rasterizer at run time, however, so font files installed at run time must either be bitmap fonts or supported by an existing font rasterizer. </p> <p>To dynamically install a font file: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-234E42FB-96AD-50AE-9FD1-B6AF3329030E"><p>Call <codeph>CWsScreenDevice::AddFile()</codeph>, specifying the file to be loaded. </p> </li> </ul> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-92A4F66E-252D-5C90-AE59-1B1991002D7B.dita"><linktext>Installing a
                Font Rasterizer DLL</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-416A3756-B5D5-5BCD-830E-2371C5F6B502.dita"><linktext>Font Store Component
                Overview</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>