<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-6BE03135-6192-5520-AE8F-80BDB3187259" xml:lang="en"><title>User
Prompt Service</title><shortdesc>According to the platform security model of the Symbian
platform, any application connecting to a network must have the <codeph>NetworkServices</codeph> capability.
All applications that have the <codeph>Networking service</codeph> capability
must be signed. The Comms User Prompt Service (UPS) enables even the unsigned
applications to access the network if user authorisation is provided. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Any application that requires network access uses the <xref href="GUID-61E0CD76-A2E3-5066-84A8-146EECA8ADCD.dita">Socket
Server</xref> API with the help of <xref href="GUID-BED8A733-2ED7-31AD-A911-C1F4707C67FD.dita"><apiname>RConnection</apiname></xref> or <xref href="GUID-D4F08503-F1EF-3531-9C3C-4AF24A6255F0.dita"><apiname>RSocket</apiname></xref>.
The platform security model checks the capability of the client application
to access the network. The comms user prompt service is used to notify the
user about the network access. The UPS feature enables applications without <codeph>NetworkServices</codeph> capability
to access the network if the user authorises the connection. </p>
<p>The target audience of this document is the device creators who write MCPR
plug-ins. Symbian provides a reference plug-in for the device creators, which
can be modified for customisation. The device creators implementing the comms
user prompt service must have knowledge of the Comms Framework, for more information
see Communications Framework. </p>
<section id="GUID-A3C21466-DD7C-499A-B4A1-BF12883A06F1"><title> User prompt</title> <p>When comms UPS is implemented, the
user is requested to authorise a network connection, when an application opens
a new connection or when it attaches to an existing connection. The UPS prompts
the user when an application tries to send data through a socket which is
not explicitly associated with an authorised network connection. The IP network
user prompt is implemented as an MCPR plug-in. The plug-in will invoke the
UPS server. The UPS functionality can be configured by Symbian developers. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-62F53D49-ABCD-471E-ACA1-68202294418D"><title>UPS server</title> <p>The UPS server generates the user prompts
and responds back to the MCPR with the user selection. The dialog creator,
a UPS plug-in, formats and streams the dialog box to the UPS server. The UPS
server interacts with the User Interface (UI) and responds back to the MCPR. </p> <p>The
UPS server is also responsible for checking the policy files which has the
details of the process and the available options. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-E06196BB-BE7E-47D4-A465-C08FFFBC8DE3"><title>UPS integrations</title><p><b>Messaging server </b> </p><p>The
Service UIDs used by the messaging server are:  </p><p><codeph>const TUid
KUidPOPService = {0x2000BB68};</codeph></p><p><codeph>const TUid KUidIMAPService
= {0x2000BB69};</codeph></p><p><codeph>const TUid KUidSMTPService = {0x2000BB6A}; </codeph></p><p><codeph>const
TUid KUidSendAs2Service = {0x2000BB6B}; </codeph></p><p><codeph>const TUid
KUidSMSService = {0x2000BB6C}; </codeph></p></section>
<section id="GUID-AFFF0469-722D-4F3B-8407-EB7188CB1DE1"><title>Session life time</title> <p>When the comms user prompt service
component is configured for Session life time, user responds to a UPS dialog
prompt by authorising the request with either '<codeph>Session Yes</codeph>'
or '<codeph>Always</codeph>' response. Any other applications running in the
same process of the user authorised session will be granted network access
for the duration of the process. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-CDA6684A-06A1-411C-A737-95B35829295F"><title>Network life time</title> <p>When the comms user prompt service
component is configured for Network session life time, user responds to a
UPS dialog prompt by authorising the request with either '<codeph>Session
Yes</codeph>' or '<codeph>Always</codeph>' response. Any other applications
running in the same process of the user authorised application will be granted
the network access. The UPS response for a particular process is valid for
the duration of the network connection associated with the process. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-300CBACD-DAA1-43A0-BB8A-02323C0187B3"><title>See also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-DB827750-6057-537E-8FE1-8F68BF2E9F99.dita">Writing
the UPS Policy File</xref>  </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>