<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-E2E2FACF-5D4F-43E8-8B53-B268252CF572" xml:lang="en"><title>Defining
Connection Management Items</title><shortdesc>Your application should define the connection management items
(destination networks, access points, default connection, and always ask)
it supports and show only the supported items in the UI. In this example,
the application supports default connection, always ask, and destination networks.
Access points (if supported) of a certain destination network can be seen
under the Options menu when the destination network is highlighted.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context id="GUID-54907FC2-9B54-4E72-8953-461C1650560C">       <p>To define
the connection management items:</p>     </context>
<steps id="GUID-4DD07DEC-6017-4237-BE46-1D69E5FBD744-GENID-1-12-1-17-1-1-7-1-4-1-3-2">
<step id="GUID-9A69E5AD-E938-4092-A8C2-CB65C37C8962-GENID-1-12-1-17-1-1-7-1-4-1-3-2-1"><cmd>Request the connection
settings dialog for supported items using the Connection Settings UI API.</cmd>
</step>
<step id="GUID-B9C9B9BC-5DA3-4943-9995-9975E5BBA5A7"><cmd>Show the items that your application supports in the UI using the
Connection Settings UI API.  After the user has made a selection, it is returned
to the application.</cmd>
</step>
<step id="GUID-BC98D052-7D13-4641-B015-9D5A71E6179D"><cmd>Store the user selection in the application's connection setup.
 For information on how to start the connection through a destination network,
see <xref href="GUID-DBF6760F-D209-4B8F-89D5-A7EFFF7959E2.dita">Starting the Connection
through the Destination Network</xref>.  If you want to prompt the user to
make this selection, see Prompting the user to select a destination network.</cmd>
</step>
</steps>
<example><codeblock xml:space="preserve">#include &lt;cmapplicationsettingsui.h&gt;TCmSettingSelection userSelection;

CCmApplicationSettingsUi* settings = CCmApplicationSettingsUi::NewL();
CleanupStack::PushL( settings );

TUint listedItems = EShowAlwaysAsk | EShowDefaultConnection |
                    EShowDestinations | EShowConnectionMethods;

TBearerFilterArray filter;

settings-&gt;RunApplicationSettingsL( userSelection,
                                   listedItems,
                                   filter );
                               CleanupStack::PopAndDestroy( settings );

switch ( userSelection.iResult )
	{
	case EDestination:
	    {
        TConnSnapPref prefs;
        prefs.SetSnap( userSelection.iId );

        iConnection.Start( prefs, iStatus );
		break;
	    }
	case EConnectionMethod:
	    {
        TCommDbConnPref prefs;
        prefs.SetIapId( userSelection.iId );
        prefs.SetDialogPreference( ECommDbDialogPrefDoNotPrompt );

        iConnection.Start( prefs, iStatus );
	    break;
	    }
	case EDefaultConnection:
	    {
iConnection.Start( iStatus );
	    break;
	    }
	default: // EAlwaysAsk
	    {
        TCommDbConnPref prefs;
        prefs.SetDialogPreference( ECommDbDialogPrefPrompt );

        iConnection.Start( prefs, iStatus );
	    }
	}
SetActive();</codeblock></example>
</taskbody></task>