<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-9B52E0C3-9EBB-44C6-A1BF-2F95711FFBA4" xml:lang="en"><title>Template
Source Code</title><shortdesc>This document discusses the template code from which device drivers
are created.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-2AE61413-CECE-4E72-86AA-0DD4FFC60EC3">       <title>Template
source code</title>       <p>To help enable a base port be produced quickly,
Symbian platform provides template source code for drivers for most peripherals.
The template implements a framework and protocols for the type of peripheral;
the base port implementer then supplies additional implementation for the
particular hardware device. For example, for the UART driver, the PDD template
implements the standard hardware abstraction interfaces for serial communication,
such as the <codeph>DComm</codeph> class. It leaves some sections marked as
"TBD", which are specific to the device. Driver developers can start with
these templates and fill in the "TBD" functions to create a basic driver.
If required, additional functionality can then be added to this. </p> <p>The
template drivers are located in the <filepath>sf\os\kernelhwsrv\bsptemplate\asspandvariant\template_variant</filepath> source
directory. The <filepath>template</filepath> directory provides a variant
base port that includes all the drivers required to do the minimal base port
for any variant. </p> <p>Details of the templates for particular drivers are
discussed in the relevant sections of the <i>Base Porting Guide</i>. This
tutorial presents an additional example device driver. </p>     </section>
</conbody></concept>