<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-D6BEAF0D-844D-51F4-8DB7-FB1D60E17FE3" xml:lang="en"><title>Copyright
Acknowledgments for Standard C++ (STLport)</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The Standard C++ libraries (STLport) ported to the Symbian
platform are covered by the following copyright notices. </p>
<p> <b>Copyright 1999,2000 Boris Fomitchev</b>  </p>
<p>This material is provided "as is", with absolutely no warranty expressed
or implied. Any use is at your own risk. </p>
<p>Permission to use or copy this software for any purpose is hereby granted
without fee, provided the above notices are retained on all copies. Permission
to modify the code and to distribute modified code is granted, provided the
above notices are retained, and a notice that the code was modified is included
with the above copyright notice. </p>
<p>The Licensee may distribute binaries compiled with STLport (whether original
or modified) without any royalties or restrictions. </p>
<p>The Licensee may distribute original or modified STLport sources, provided
that: </p>
<ul>
<li id="GUID-81372FF3-31AD-559E-980D-0761F4042DD1"><p>The conditions indicated
in the above permission notice are met; </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B32CD2F2-08FB-57FA-93F8-3432F6489D95"><p>The following copyright
notices are retained when present, and conditions provided in accompanying
permission notices are met : </p> </li>
</ul>
<p> <b>Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company</b>  </p>
<p> <b>Copyright 1996,97 Silicon Graphics Computer Systems, Inc.</b>  </p>
<p> <b> Copyright 1997 Moscow Center for SPARC Technology.</b>  </p>
<p>Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. Hewlett-Packard
Company makes no representations about the suitability of this software for
any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty. </p>
<p>Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. Silicon
Graphics makes no representations about the suitability of this software for
any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty. </p>
<p>Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. Moscow
Center for SPARC Technology makes no representations about the suitability
of this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or
implied warranty. </p>
</conbody></concept>