<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-3799F0DA-B99C-55BB-B44F-63B971DF1865" xml:lang="en"><title>Cleanup
Strategy Tutorial</title><shortdesc>This tutorial describes the cleanup strategy and provides details
on alternative cleanup strategies. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<prereq><p>Before you start, you must: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-18CD0776-EEA9-56AF-9E5F-E5101BB88643"><p> <b>Deafult cleanup
strategies:</b> These are based on a template-based implementation of the
strategy design pattern. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-598FF730-0C91-51C4-B9AA-16B74137BB6E"><p> <b>Alternative cleanup
strategies:</b> These can be specified as an optional template parameter of
the class templates for automatic resource management. </p> </li>
</ul> </prereq>
<context><p>Cleanup strategy is based on a template-based implementation of
the Strategy design pattern. The strategy design pattern is one of the most
popular, highly recommended design patterns. The vast majority of the competent
C++ developers are already familiar with the strategy (Policy) design pattern
and Policy-based design, which should improve the usability of these class
templates. </p> <p>Each
resource management class has a default cleanup strategy that is invoked when
the managing object goes out of scope. It is however possible to define an
alternative cleanup strategy when constructing the managing object. It is
also possible to define a custom cleanup strategy using the <xref href="GUID-CE0F22BA-8789-3659-87C4-164EB5862B4C.dita"><apiname>DEFINE_CLEANUP_FUNCTION</apiname></xref> macro. </p> <p> <b>Note:</b> Although
the examples below use LCleanedupX classes, the method for definfing how the
object is cleaned up is equally applicable to LManagedX classes. </p> <p>An
example code snippet is given below: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-DE45C250-C8C5-5210-B53C-D9256F00194B" xml:space="preserve">
//Class definition of trivial R-Class
class RSimple
    {
public:

    RSimple(){iData = NULL;}

    void Open(TInt aValue)
        {
        iData = new(ELeave) TInt(aValue);
        }

    //Cleanup function – frees resource
    void Close()
        {
        delete iData;
        iData = NULL;
        }

    //Cleanup function – frees resource
    void Free()
        {
        delete iData;
        iData = NULL;
        }

    //Cleanup function – frees resource
    void ReleaseData()
        {
        delete iData;
        iData = NULL;
        }

    //static cleanup function – frees aRSimple resources
    static void Cleanup(TAny* aRSimple)
        {
        static_cast RSimple* (aRSimple)-&gt;Close();
        }
private:
    Tint* iData;

    };

</codeblock> <p>The above RSimple class has three cleanup member functions,
Close, Free and ReleaseData. </p> <p>Each resource management class has a
default cleanup strategy that is invoked when the managing object goes out
of scope. The default cleanup strategy is dependent on the managing type.
Consider the example code snippet below: </p> <p> <b>Note:</b> Although the
examples below use LManagedX classes, the method for defining a custom cleanup
strategy is equally applicable to LCleanedupX classes. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-7D4F639F-3BEA-59CD-BA75-DF1C25175BA3" xml:space="preserve">
class CTicker : public CBase
    {
public:
    void Tick() { ++iTicks; }
    void Tock() { ++iTocks; }

    void Zap() { delete this; }

public:
    TInt iTicks;
    TInt iTocks;
    };


class CManagedUserSinglePhase : public CBase
    {
public:
    . . .

    ~CManagedUserSinglePhase()
        {
        // The iTicker manager will automatically delete the CTicker
        // The iTimer manager will automatically Close() the RTimer
        }

    . . .
private:
    // We have to use LManagedXxx for fields, not LCleanedupXxx
    LManagedPtr CTicker iTicker;
    LManagedHandle RTimer iTimer;
    };
</codeblock> <p>The default cleanup strategy for an LManagedPtr is to delete
the pointer and this is the action taken in the destructor for CManagedUserSinglePhase. </p> <p>Alternate
cleanup strategies are pre-defined in <filepath>emanaged.h</filepath> file.
It is also possible to define a custom alternate cleanup strategy that can
be passed as the second template parameter to the constructor of an LManagedX
or LCleanedupX object. </p> <p>Although the examples below use LManagedX classes,
the method for defining an alternate cleanup strategy is equally applicable
to LCleanedupX classes. </p> <p>The default cleanup strategy is to call <xref href="GUID-91F3C4E0-5687-366D-9D50-D710E763F0CF.dita#GUID-91F3C4E0-5687-366D-9D50-D710E763F0CF/GUID-29E73AC7-D397-3237-ABF9-C93C0AD39543"><apiname>CTicker::Zap()</apiname></xref> function.
It is possible however to define a custom alternate cleanup strategy as shown
below: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-5B268C52-2708-50CF-8070-0896C8CE80C0" xml:space="preserve">
// Defines a custom pointer cleanup policy that calls the Zap member
template &lt;class T&gt;
class TTickerZap 
    {
public:
    static void Cleanup(T* aPtr)
        {
        // The general template/class scaffolding remains the same
        // for all custom cleanups, just this cleanup body varies
        aPtr-&gt;Zap();
        test.Printf(_L("Zapped CTicker\n"));
        }
    };
</codeblock> </context>
</taskbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-B007634D-4D55-528A-8B85-6120C633AC8B.dita"><linktext>EUser High
Level Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-A18153C0-230C-51FB-9384-A48BB4E42F03.dita"><linktext>Clean-up
Strategy</linktext></link>
</related-links></task>