<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-C72CF928-F32E-55CF-A4B0-B51CD7D14F8A" xml:lang="en"><title>How
to use file server sessions</title><shortdesc>This topic describes how to use file server sessions.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The <codeph>Rfs</codeph> class represents a session with the file server.
The following code demonstrates the use of the <keyword>session         path</keyword> and
shows how to connect and disconnect to and from the file server. </p>
<ul>
<li id="GUID-6D41700D-4355-5029-A767-4D26E830522D"><p>Use <codeph>Connect()</codeph> to
connect to the file server. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-AD64EBC8-00EF-5AB9-9902-33CA63FBD41E"><p>Use <codeph>SessionPath()</codeph> to
get the session path. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-E38A2DDB-0071-505F-9D6A-37A4BB22C4C5"><p>Use <codeph>SetSessionPath()</codeph> to
set the session path. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-54C5D745-D2DE-5B3B-AA67-9A3B0505515B"><p>Use <codeph>Close()</codeph> to
close the file server session when its use is complete. </p> </li>
</ul>
<codeblock id="GUID-AFD9152A-0439-5807-905D-1EA6FBC2BF8B" xml:space="preserve">_LIT(KSession,"Session path for fsSession is %S\n"); 
RFs fsSession;
CleanupClosePushL(fsSession);
User::LeaveIfError(fsSession.Connect()); 
TFileName path;
User::LeaveIfError(fsSession.SessionPath(path));
console-&gt;Printf(KSession,&amp;path); 
... 
... 
fsSession.Close();
CleanupStack::PopAndDestroy();</codeblock>
<p>Use <xref href="GUID-16B0008A-0F85-3C1E-89E1-E7431E2C93B9.dita"><apiname>CleanupClosePushL()</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-0DD554D7-B9B1-3FD3-898F-4D855144FCEA.dita#GUID-0DD554D7-B9B1-3FD3-898F-4D855144FCEA/GUID-C3BB6B4F-8096-3D74-9BEA-D77F309D900A"><apiname>CleanupStack::PopAndDestroy()</apiname></xref> so
that <codeph>fsSession</codeph> is still closed if any of the <xref href="GUID-C197C9A7-EA05-3F24-9854-542E984C612D.dita#GUID-C197C9A7-EA05-3F24-9854-542E984C612D/GUID-96AFAC46-F3AD-392B-8A97-AFCBF2978CFB"><apiname>User::LeaveIfError()</apiname></xref> functions
leave. </p>
<p>See also <xref href="GUID-76D1438E-445E-5864-BA9D-27BC61D72C1B.dita">How to
use CleanupClosePushL()</xref>. </p>
<section id="GUID-9F204CC0-F4AE-4A84-805C-A10E07ECACF9"><title>Notes</title> <ul>
<li id="GUID-FB2F41D7-445D-52B1-85DA-AF48CD4E7AA7"><p>The session path is
the path in which, by default, all operations in the current file server session
take place. The path can be changed by a call to <codeph>RFs::SetSessionPath()</codeph>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DEA3DC5E-3315-5091-B69A-396A93588791"><p>Unlike some other systems,
there is a <i>single</i> path, rather than a path for each drive: the path
consists of a drive and a path specification. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9FE6A9C7-08C8-57D4-8E5F-FA3FE7894544"><p>You can make several
connections to the file server from the same program, and each can have a
different session path. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-349AE117-FB3F-5147-B62D-9A74AA0326EC"><p>If a file server session
is not closed using the <codeph>Close()</codeph> function, it is closed automatically
when the thread that opened it terminates. However, when operations using
the file server session have finished, it is good practice to close all resources
immediately. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
</conbody></concept>