<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-7BB755B3-B34F-4F09-AE83-336D4F5556D0" xml:lang="en"><title>Email
Widget API</title><shortdesc>This section provides an overview of the functionality of Email
Widget API. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-3B0D7647-5AE0-4955-B63C-792D538771C2"> <title>Purpose</title> <p>Email
Widget API provides a plug-in interface to enable third-party developers to
integrate their email application or framework with Symbian platform email
widget.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-03A94132-C79A-4FAF-BA61-9DE955CCA888"><title>Description</title><p>This
API is an ECOM plug-in which must be implemented by the third-party developers.
The Email Server process of Symbian platform instantiates this plug-in and
the plug-in must provide up to date information that is requested by the Email
Server. </p></section>
<section id="GUID-8B3D3ACA-6869-40E0-B9D5-51D29A22FB5C"><title>APIs</title><p>The
key classes are: </p><table id="GUID-EA7D4989-CFDD-4F78-8212-F62C5E0CFB80">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-F28C7E5D-9A31-3B40-B3E4-E51F8E4232D9.dita"><apiname>CEmailObserverPlugin</apiname></xref></entry>
<entry><p>Interface for Email Observer Plug-in API.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-D9AB36F9-867B-3F61-A068-D19E2AF63126.dita"><apiname>MEmailData</apiname></xref>  </entry>
<entry><p>Interface for plug-in data. Client will access the data through
this API.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-E3C7BCD3-5772-3C8F-A84A-4296780DC61E.dita"><apiname>MEmailLaunchParameters</apiname></xref> </entry>
<entry><p>Interface for launch parameters. When user access the widget, an
application launch is initiated with the launch parameters.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-1A6C6F03-72C4-3C9A-8018-2FB6E8C4C276.dita"><apiname>MEmailObserverListener</apiname></xref>  </entry>
<entry><p>Interface class that is implemented by the plug-in instantiator.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-B6365AAC-B4D1-3CE7-86ED-4D3B3ED3AE55.dita"><apiname>MMailboxData</apiname></xref></entry>
<entry><p>Interface for mailbox related information.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>KEmailObserverInterfaceUid</codeph>  </entry>
<entry><p>Ecom interface uid for email observer plug-in (<codeph>0x2002A5AE</codeph>).</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section id="GUID-6D15E5D6-DB71-41A3-9986-8ECD59ABF699-GENID-1-10-1-7-1-1-5-1-3-1-3-4"><title>Typical Uses</title><p>Following
are some of the typical uses of Email widget API:<ul>
<li><p>allows to add third-party email accounts to the Symbian platform email
widget.</p></li>
<li><p>notifies when a new message is received on the third-party email account.</p></li>
<li><p>allows to remove the widget with 3rd party email account from the homescreen.</p></li>
</ul></p>     </section>
</conbody></concept>