<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-75AFF4B9-1F95-585E-9354-EAA6271251FA"><title>How to troubleshoot post-linker (elf2e32) errors</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>The post-linker (<filepath>elf2e32.exe</filepath>) is a Symbian platform build tool that is run after the compiler and linker when a project is built. Its principal function is to create executables (DLLs and EXEs) in the particular format required by Symbian platform, known as the E32Image format. </p> <p>In ordinary use, the post-linker is called by the make files constructed by <filepath>abld</filepath> or an IDE. The options with which the tool is called depend on your settings of the project being built (i.e. as specified in the project MMP file). Error and warning messages reported by the tool can indicate a problem with these settings. This page contains some help on interpreting these messages correctly. </p> <table id="GUID-6D5D57BB-6ABC-5126-B4D0-08FF3C87568E"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><tbody><row><entry><p> <b>Error</b>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <b>Action</b>  </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>DEF File &lt;position&gt; is not in proper format </p> </entry> <entry><p> This indicates a syntax error in an input DEF file. You need to edit or regenerate the DEF file to correct this. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>ELF File &lt;file&gt; contains initialized writable data </p> </entry> <entry><p>By default, Symbian platform DLL's may not contain writable static data. You should change the project's source code to remove such items. For suggestions on alternatives, see <xref href="GUID-5BDE6462-E6CA-5738-A587-C7D875574789.dita">Static data</xref>. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>ELF File &lt;file&gt; contains uninitialized writable data </p> </entry> <entry><p>By default, Symbian platform DLL's may not contain writable static data. You should change the project's source code to remove such items. For suggestions on alternatives, see <xref href="GUID-5BDE6462-E6CA-5738-A587-C7D875574789.dita">Static data</xref>. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>Ordinal number is not in sequence </p> </entry> <entry><p>The symbol is indicates that the input DEF file has been incorrectly edited, so that the symbols are not listed in consecutive ordinal order. You need to edit or regenerate the DEF file to correct this. </p> <p>Note that if you intended to remove an export from a frozen DEF file, this should be done by using the <codeph>ABSENT</codeph> keyword, for example: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-1CE3F9C2-8758-51CB-A93E-4CA41E51B1AD" xml:space="preserve">_ZNK14Foo14BarLER12CStreamStore @ 646 NONAME ABSENT</codeblock> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>Symbol &lt;symbol&gt; missing from ELF File </p> </entry> <entry><p>The input DEF file, specified by a MMP <codeph>deffile</codeph> statement, specifies an export that is not found in the executable. </p> <p> If no binary compatibility break was intended, you should either correct your source to export the missing symbol. If a compatibility break was intended, you should fix the DEF file. </p> <p>If you are not concerned with maintaining compatibility, use <codeph>exportunfrozen</codeph> in the project. This will stop the tool reporting this error. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>Unrecognized capability </p> </entry> <entry><p>Check that the platform security capabilities, specified by a MMP <codeph>capability</codeph> statement, are correctly spelled. <i> Symbian OS v9.0 Security Architecture</i> lists the available capabilities. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>Unsupported Target Type &lt;type&gt; </p> </entry> <entry><p>Check that the target type, specified by a MMP <codeph>targettype</codeph> statement, is correctly specified. The <xref href="GUID-9535CF67-7541-554E-BE5C-9FDDFDB58EA5.dita">targettype</xref> reference page lists the available target types. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </conbody></concept>