<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-3319E01A-F500-5F5C-9798-351C6F3EC583" xml:lang="en"><title>Updating
the GPS/A-GPS Central Repository Initialisation File </title><shortdesc>This shows how to modify the settings of the GPS/A-GPS PSY and
the A-GPS Integration Module so that they do not conflict with each other. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context><p>As described in <xref href="GUID-D0C20045-FCC5-53CB-BBDB-7AA058C9139E.dita">GPS/A-GPS
PSY Overview</xref>, the GPS/A-GPS PSY does not integrate directly with positioning
hardware. It uses the A-GPS Location Manager with an A-GPS Integration Module
to connect the Location Server (<codeph>eposserver.exe</codeph>) to positioning
hardware. </p> <p>The same A-GPS Integration Module can be used by both the
GPS PSY and the A-GPS PSY, potentially at the same time. There are two places
that information about the properties of the GPS/A-GPS PSY and A-GPS Integration
Module are stored: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-E71A7995-B0EA-523A-BEF3-D677086C18B8"><p>The GPS/A-GPS PSY registers
itself as a PSY with the LBS subsystem using a Central Repository initialisation
file with keys defined by the <xref href="GUID-DA2DC704-CE65-54FB-9049-4E1C73092EDF-GENID-1-7-1-15-1-1-10-1-5-1-5-1-8-1.dita">Positioning
Plug-in Information API</xref>. The GPS PSY and the A-GPS PSY have separate
initialisation files. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-ADDBC706-ACE3-544F-9CD4-EC5F4DD95445"><p>The A-GPS Location Manager
uses a <codeph>.ini</codeph> file that specifies the properties
of the A-GPS Integration Module. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>The description of the properties of the PSY and the Integration
Module must be the same in both files. </p><p>The following procedure assumes
you have created an A-GPS Integration Module for your device's positioning
hardware and have created a module .ini file that correctly describes the
properties of the positioning hardware. The format of the .ini file is described
in <xref href="GUID-5DD17088-1F9C-5810-8143-5067A2B18330.dita">A-GPS Location Data
Source API</xref>. An example file containing some typical values is shown
below. Your A-GPS Integration Module may have different parameters: </p><codeblock xml:space="preserve"># example_datasource.ini
[1]
Version= 0.2.1		#
ModuleId= 271064388	# dec
ModuleName= "Example_AGPS_Module”
TechnologyType= 0101	# binary
DeviceLocation= 1	# binary
Capabilities= 11111	# binary
ClassesSupported= 111111	# binary
TimeToFirstFix= 90000	# ms
TimeToNextFix= 1000	# ms
HorizontalAccuracy= 5.4 # real
VerticalAccuracy= 5.4 # real
CostIndicator= 2	# dec
PowerConsumption= 2	# dec
DataSourceId= 271065673	# dec
ExecutableName= "lbsgpslocmanager.exe"
DeviceGpsModeCaps=1011	# binary - Exclusive TA OR TB (+ Autonomous)</codeblock> </context>
<steps id="GUID-20C3ADEC-CF35-5A8E-903E-E32D7CDD004B">
<step id="GUID-E4B40CA8-FFC8-570D-87BA-530E796695E5"><cmd>If you want to use
the A-GPS PSY with your Integration Module, modify the Central Repository
initialisation file(s) for the PSY so that the values are the same as those
in your Integration Module .ini file. </cmd>
<info>The Central Repository initialisation file for the A-GPS PSY implementation
supplied with the Symbian platform is in <filepath>datasourcemodules\lbsposfwadaptation\lbsgpsagpspsy\lbsagpspsy\cenrep\10285abc.txt</filepath>.
The version supplied with the Symbian platform contains the following: </info>
<stepxmp><codeblock id="GUID-3EB956AB-8D32-548E-A9FF-E6712631B43A" xml:space="preserve">
cenrep
version 1
[owner]
0x101f97b2
[defaultmeta]
 0
[platsec]
 cap_rd=ReadDeviceData cap_wr=WriteDeviceData
[Main]
0x1 int 1 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x2 int 0 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x3 int 1 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x4 int 90000000 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x5 int 1000000 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x6 real 5.4 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x7 real 5.4 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x8 int 2 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x9 int 2 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0xa int 5 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0xb int 1 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0xc int 31 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0xd int 31 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0xe int 1 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0xf string "\\resource\\lbsagpspsy_name.rsc" 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x10000000 int 2000000 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
</codeblock> </stepxmp>
<info>For a full description of the meanings of these keys, see <xref href="GUID-DA2DC704-CE65-54FB-9049-4E1C73092EDF-GENID-1-7-1-15-1-1-10-1-5-1-5-1-8-1.dita">Positioning
Plug-in Information API</xref>. </info>
<info>The important keys for this task are as shown in the following table: </info>
<stepxmp><table id="GUID-A227F71E-9B87-54D7-ABDF-4C29D1CF6F37">
<tgroup cols="4"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><colspec colname="col3"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Key name</entry>
<entry>Key value</entry>
<entry>Meaning</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>KPSYTimeToFirstFix</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>0x4</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Time to First Fix </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This must be the same time as the <codeph>TimeToFirstFix</codeph> value
in your Integration Module .ini file. </p> <p> <b>Important note: In the PSY
file the time is specified in microseconds. In the Integration Module .ini
file the time is specified in milliseconds.</b>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>KPSYTimeToNextFix</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>0x5</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Time to Next Fix </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This must be the same time as the <codeph>TimeToNextFix</codeph> value
in your Integration Module .ini file. </p> <p> <b>Important note: In the PSY
file the time is specified in microseconds. In the Integration Module .ini
file the time is specified in milliseconds.</b>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>KPSYHorizontalAccuracy</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>0x6</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Horizontal Accuracy </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This must be the same as the <codeph>HorizontalAccuracy</codeph> value
in your Integration Module .ini file. The value is specified in metres. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>KPSYVerticalAccuracy</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>0x7</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Vertical Accuracy </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This must be the same as the <codeph>VerticalAccuracy</codeph> value
in your Integration Module .ini file. The value is specified in metres. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>KPSYCostIndicator</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>0x8 </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Cost Indicator </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This must be the same as the <codeph>CostIndicator</codeph> value
in your Integration Module .ini file. The value is an integer taken from the <xref href="GUID-1AA235FA-CEC1-3853-8F96-C538C02B596D.dita#GUID-1AA235FA-CEC1-3853-8F96-C538C02B596D/GUID-78C084A0-43F8-3040-BD98-70E2E62A5D45"><apiname>TPositionQuality::TCostIndicator</apiname></xref> enum. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>KPSYPowerConsumption</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>0x9</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Power Consumption </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This must be the same as the <codeph>PowerConsumption</codeph> value
in your Integration Module .ini file. The value is an integer taken from the <xref href="GUID-1AA235FA-CEC1-3853-8F96-C538C02B596D.dita#GUID-1AA235FA-CEC1-3853-8F96-C538C02B596D/GUID-AD77543D-625A-39CF-A1D5-F5B5636E17F7"><apiname>TPositionQuality::TPowerConsumption</apiname></xref> enum. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>KPSYTechnologyType</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>0xa</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Technology Type </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This must be the same as the <codeph>TechnologyType</codeph> value
in your Integration Module .ini file. The value is taken from the <xref href="GUID-B098F3DB-E2FE-3C5A-8508-4B04D954AB26.dita#GUID-B098F3DB-E2FE-3C5A-8508-4B04D954AB26/GUID-03AF8C51-1CAF-3F4C-BED1-17844FAE8423"><apiname>TPositionModuleInfo::_TTechnologyType</apiname></xref> enum. </p> <p> <b>Important
note: In the PSY file the value is specified as decimal integer. In the Integration
Module .ini file the value is specified in binary.</b>  </p> <p>In the files
shown above, the value of 5 for this key specifies that the PSY/Integration
Module supports a technology type of <codeph>ETechnologyTerminal</codeph> + <codeph>ETechnologyAssisted</codeph> =
1 + 4 = 0101 in binary. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>KPSYCapabilities</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>0xc</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Device Capabilities </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This must be the same as the <codeph>Capabilities</codeph> value
in your Integration Module .ini file. The value is taken from the <xref href="GUID-B098F3DB-E2FE-3C5A-8508-4B04D954AB26.dita#GUID-B098F3DB-E2FE-3C5A-8508-4B04D954AB26/GUID-4A84D57F-D202-3F79-8094-139D69630C6D"><apiname>TPositionModuleInfo::_Capabilities</apiname></xref> enum. </p> <p> <b>Important
note: In the PSY file the value is specified as a decimal integer. In the
Integration Module .ini file the value is specified in binary.</b>  </p> <p>In
the files shown above the value of 31 for this key specifies that the PSY/Integration
Module supports the capabilities: <codeph>ECapabilityHorizontal + ECapabilityVertical
+ ECapabilitySpeed +                         ECapabilityDirection + ECapabilitySatellite </codeph> =
31 decimal or 11111 in binary. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>KPSYClassesSupported</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>0xd</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported Positioning classes </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This must be the same as the <codeph>ClassesSupported</codeph> value
in your Integration Module .ini file. The value is taken from the <xref href="GUID-BC8B2D08-1B64-35BB-8F58-4E7123650BD7.dita"><apiname>_TPositionInfoClassType</apiname></xref> enum. </p> <p> <b>Important
note: In the PSY file the value is specified as decimal integer. In the Integration
Module .ini file the value is specified in binary.</b>  </p> <p>In the files
shown above the value of 31 for this key specifies that the PSY/Integration
Module supports the positioning classes: <codeph>EPositionGpsMeasurementInfoClass
+ EPositionCourseInfoClass +                         EPositionGenericInfoClass
+ EPositionInfoClass</codeph> = 31 decimal or 11111 in binary. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </stepxmp>
</step>
<step id="GUID-CFB743FE-C90C-569D-B1CD-433930702B07"><cmd>If you want to use
the GPS PSY with your Integration Module, modify the Central Repository initialisation
file(s) for the PSY so that the values are the same as those in your Integration
Module .ini file. </cmd>
<info>The Central Repository initialisation file for the GPS PSY implementation
with the Symbian platform is <filepath>datasourcemodules\lbsposfwadaptation\lbsgpsagpspsy\lbsagpspsy\cenrep\102869C7.txt</filepath>.
It contains the following: </info>
<stepxmp><codeblock id="GUID-63A5B375-F712-5515-A985-5F54BCD52AD9" xml:space="preserve">
cenrep
version 1
[owner]
0x101f97b2
[defaultmeta]
 0
[platsec]
 cap_rd=ReadDeviceData cap_wr=WriteDeviceData
[Main]
0x1 int 1 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x2 int 0 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x3 int 1 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x4 int 90000000 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x5 int 1000000 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x6 real 5.4 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x7 real 5.4 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x8 int 2 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x9 int 2 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0xa int 1 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0xb int 1 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0xc int 31 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0xd int 31 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0xe int 1 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0xf string "\\resource\\lbsgpspsy_name.rsc" 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
0x10000000 int 2000000 0 cap_rd=alwayspass cap_wr=alwaysfail
</codeblock> </stepxmp>
<info>This is the same as the repository file for the A-GPS implementation
[1], except the value for key <codeph>0xa</codeph> (Technology Type) is <codeph>ETechnologyTerminal</codeph> =
1, to indicate that the PSY uses autonomous GPS. </info>
<info>See step 1 above for details about which values you may need to change
so that this file accurately describes the properties of your A-GPS Integration
Module. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-CC2CC449-7A14-5143-9B87-80D1D887234E"><cmd>Make a binary version
of the Central Repository initialisation file(s) and install them on the device. </cmd>
<info>The LBS build process makes a binary version of the PSY Central Repository
initialisation files and copies them to <filepath>epoc32\winscw\c\private\10202BE9</filepath>. </info>
<info>To rebuild the A-GPS PSY Central Repository initialisation file you
can use the makefile <filepath>createlbsagpspsyrep.mk</filepath> in <filepath>datasourcemodules\lbsposfwadaptation\lbsgpsagpspsy\lbsagpspsy\group</filepath>. </info>
<info>To rebuild the GPS PSY Central Repository initialisation file you can
use the makefile <filepath>createlbsgpspsyrep.mk</filepath> in <filepath>datasourcemodules\lbsposfwadaptation\lbsgpsagpspsy\lbsgpspsy\group</filepath>. </info>
<info>Use the <xref href="GUID-9BB4A44E-6870-5A25-8EA8-0B0F1565213F.dita">ROM macros</xref> to
copy the GPS/A-GPS PSY DLL and the repository files into a device ROM. </info>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-D0C20045-FCC5-53CB-BBDB-7AA058C9139E.dita"><linktext>GPS/A-GPS
PSY Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-9BB4A44E-6870-5A25-8EA8-0B0F1565213F.dita"><linktext>Include the
GPS/A-GPS PSY in ROM</linktext></link>
</related-links></task>