<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-3F880EFC-E891-5C71-8360-1BBB54367AFA"><title>Localisable icon/caption definition files</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>These files define the following information required by the application launcher or system shell:</p> <ul><li id="GUID-7F29FAB6-8EE4-583D-9B18-B91AA475BC94"><p>the application’s caption. This is often displayed beside the icon in the application launcher, and is usually the application’s name,</p> </li> <li id="GUID-5B9FC4AE-02C8-5644-AA6E-97EFEA27037A"><p>an optional short version of the caption. This is used by some UIs in situations where screen space is limited,</p> </li> <li id="GUID-6D7CA1B8-EB2F-50E4-9C85-C1919B2E8B27"><p>the name of the icon file,</p> </li> <li id="GUID-4B2B8D32-B6A5-52B0-83EF-3E4ACB60119D"><p>for view-based applications, optional information about the views, including view-specific captions and icons. This feature may not be supported by all UIs.</p> </li> <li id="GUID-0F7E7175-67FC-53BA-898D-C7C4AFEEC3A5"><p>an optional application group name. This may also be defined in the registration file. If it is defined in both files, the localisable version takes precedence.</p> </li> </ul> <p>This information is defined using a <codeph>LOCALISABLE_APP_INFO</codeph> resource struct, see <filepath>AppInfo.rh</filepath>. This resource can either be defined in a icon/caption definition resource file, or in the application's UI resource file, if it has one.</p> <p> This choice of two methods is provided to give flexibility. For instance:</p> <ul><li id="GUID-4EDF8630-818E-5035-913D-D64695247559"><p> applications without any UI resources but which require icons/captions might need to use an icon/caption definition file,</p> </li> <li id="GUID-C01E9BAB-152D-586C-8183-B3B998620973"><p>applications with UI resources that do not need to be localised, but which require multiple captions, would use a single UI resource file, but several language-dependent icon/caption definition files,</p> </li> <li id="GUID-DE9080B3-6E42-503D-BCDA-E8FBDC420DA7"><p>for applications with localisable UI resources and different captions for different languages, it may be more convenient to define the caption/icon information in the UI resource files instead of using icon/caption definition files.</p> </li> </ul> <p>Localisable information is optional. A set of default icons are provided by the GUI, and the default caption is the application name.</p> </conbody></concept>