<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-9444E57C-1C2F-5EAC-B162-25FC27BB9516"><title>Pre-v5.1 non-Unicode resource format</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This page describes the resource file format used with the pre-Unicode versions of Symbian platform (all versions before v5.1). This format is obsolete for later versions. </p> <table id="GUID-DDC8DE1F-2A89-5E70-B20F-14EE1003B810"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><tbody><row><entry><p> <b>Number of bytes</b> </p> </entry> <entry><p> <b>Description</b> </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>2</p> </entry> <entry><p>This two-byte integer (in little-endian byte order) stores the file-position of the start of the resource index (see the last row of this table for a description of the resource index). </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>2</p> </entry> <entry><p>This two-byte integer (in little-endian byte order) stores the size of the resource index in bytes. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>[any] </p> </entry> <entry><p>This contains the data for all the resources stored in order, one after another with no byte-padding between them. The binary data of each resource is laid out exactly as specified in the resource definition. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>(number_of_resources+1)*2 </p> </entry> <entry><p>This is the resource index, which is a series of two-byte integers (in little-endian byte order), one for each resource in the resource file, each storing the file-position of that resource’s data (see row immediately above). </p> <p>The last 16-bit number gives the file offset of the end of the last resource (i.e. the beginning of the index table). </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </conbody></concept>