<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-9B3CDA90-2BAE-5AF3-914A-6CB9FC84746A" xml:lang="en"><title>Generic
Board Support Packages Overview</title><shortdesc>Describes the generic board support packages used in Symbian platform. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-8AA53EA3-B5D7-4723-B37D-BCADC5620820"><title>Purpose</title> <p>The
Generic BSP provides a framework for developing a new BSP. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-64AB7044-E473-4449-A280-95FBDD14011A"><title>Required background</title> <p>It
is assumed that you are familiar with the Board Support Packages used in Symbian
platform. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-939B3E38-F9A7-44A1-9FEB-DAE5E85036E0"><title>Key concepts
and terms</title> <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>ASSP</dt>
<dd><p>Contains software that supports a specific ASSP or ASIC. This would
be used by a BSP that was targeting a device that used the specified ASIC. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Variant</dt>
<dd><p>This has the master build files and source for the device specific
peripherals. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Board Support Package</dt>
<dd><p>Provides hardware-specific support code for a given hardware reference
board. A package may be delivered as a single component or in multiple components. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
</dl> </section>
<section id="GUID-90192E63-3DF3-4F23-9470-B213AD68F8CC"><title>Architecture</title> <p>The
generic board support package architecture constitute the lowest layer of
the kernel. The kernel contains separate code for the ASSP and variant called
by the kernel. This acts as a framework on which a set of generic device drivers
for a common peripheral controllers such as LCD, UART, Keyboard, Digitizer
and NOR Flash Media Driver are customized at compile-time. These drivers are
made generic through a set of preprocessor macros which specify the customizes
parts like I/O base address and optional features . It also has template variant
that provide template code with placeholders to simplify development of a
variant for new hardware. It includes generic code for common extensions and
physical drivers. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-3C050451-8FC3-4FCD-89A7-0E808365AF57"><title>Generic Board
Support Packages Summary</title> <p>Generic BSP provides the following framework
for the following: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-FCF3E7D2-E083-597A-88A7-276BA7B5F3D3"><p> <b>DMA Framework </b>  </p> <p> <filepath>dma.lib</filepath>  </p> <p>DMA
Platform Independent Layer that provides DMA Framework to transfer data using
DMA. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7B0DEC0C-5DB6-5105-A668-AA143A71FC6F"><p> <b>Binary Power Framework</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>bpower.cpp</filepath>  </p> <p>A
framework for managing power within the system, and the management of the
transition between power states. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-43B546A0-3718-5D83-8441-17C2468DD1C5"><p> <b>Basic Resource Manager
Framework</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>resmanpsl.lib</filepath>  </p> <p>A framework
that provides essential or required functionality for static resources. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7D4B029C-73FA-5D46-AD66-1EB9BE299D08"><p> <b>Extended Resource
Manager Framework</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>resmanextenedpsl.lib</filepath>  </p> <p>A
framework that provides additional support for dynamic resources and resource
dependencies. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-A91C6359-E547-51AD-AA8C-45BCAFBA98AC.dita#GUID-A91C6359-E547-51AD-AA8C-45BCAFBA98AC/GUID-B66850E3-11C9-58D6-ADB3-12ABBC1B792C">
<linktext>Kernel Architecture 2</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>