<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-67D02FE2-3FF6-5FAD-8F74-A677FC397F25" xml:lang="en"><title>Guide
to Large Files</title><shortdesc>The enhanced file server supports large files, greater than 2GB,
by introducing 64-bit variants of existing functions. This maintains binary
and source compatibility. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-B4ADB469-2CED-4589-96F2-E1D3A473F3F0"><title>Introduction</title><p>The file server client, file server
and file systems have been modified to use 64-bit arguments and arithmetic.
The overhead of these changes are small in relation to the number of calls
per second for streaming read, write and recursive file access operations.
These changes have no impact on performance. </p><p>The following components
have been enhanced to support large file access: </p><ul>
<li id="GUID-C669A1A3-D7FA-50F7-9668-E10D03A74C7B"><p>file server client API </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-ABCBF8A2-B9DB-58CE-9A44-6C2640968223"><p>file server </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-1D109EB4-5BF3-5E26-BA55-7E6574E648E3"><p>FAT32 file system. </p> </li>
</ul></section>
<section id="GUID-E8719A5F-ACD4-4FD3-B8F0-BD9A6DCFEC3D"><title>File server client API</title><p>The change to 64-bit file
use is not automatic. Code must be modified to use 64-bit file support. Any
code that is not modified will continue to operate in legacy 32-bit mode. </p><p>Applications
that are not designed to handle large files may experience behavioural breaks.
For example, unexpected return codes or values when an attempt is made to
seek to the end of a large file using the 32-bit APIs, and code that sits
in a loop counting bytes written may overflow if <codeph>TInt32</codeph> values
are used. </p><p>These values have been changed to support 64-bit operations: </p><ul>
<li id="GUID-61D742A0-A565-58EC-9094-3B63F1038EBD"><p>the <i>size</i> of a
file </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-873E3345-BADA-5933-B548-FFA31498221C"><p>the current <i>position</i> in
a file </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9C6FA09C-33B4-5317-9B89-7783E8A1D52F"><p>the <i>length</i> for
lock and unlock operations on a file. </p> </li>
</ul> <p><b>RFile64</b> </p><p>The
existing <xref href="GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0.dita"><apiname>RFile</apiname></xref> APIs have not been changed but extended
so that legacy code can be easily altered. The class <xref href="GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7.dita"><apiname>RFile64</apiname></xref> has
been added that enables the 64-bit APIs for use by new applications. </p> <p>The <xref href="GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7.dita"><apiname>RFile64</apiname></xref> class
provides the following main functions: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-153482C6-9BFD-59C2-88B0-9A1406ACC2DA"><p>Methods to create a
new file handle: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-D9063861-FC2F-53A6-9A92-1F90AF6C7D0A"><p> <xref href="GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7.dita#GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7/GUID-C21D963A-3A25-3337-9C2C-2F38FC8B3978"><apiname>RFile64::Open()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A3ACE92F-0597-5D1D-9460-619810DA81FE"><p> <xref href="GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7.dita#GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7/GUID-4CFB5583-14DC-3624-949E-4DC3371C87C3"><apiname>RFile64::Create()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-CC766AF7-C92F-50FE-B8E4-2C38642833BB"><p> <xref href="GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7.dita#GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7/GUID-8C0839D4-3A34-3A5D-987F-D1835A9E5D48"><apiname>RFile64::Replace()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-D0782E41-A028-5A27-BCA1-C2A47818F865"><p> <xref href="GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7.dita#GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7/GUID-FBF7B5A8-F674-3864-90D8-F611957E3594"><apiname>RFile64::Temp()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8446EA24-F3FA-57C3-8270-2316E43384B3"><p> <xref href="GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7.dita#GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7/GUID-FB9777D6-047E-3063-B107-AB3C9C85DA29"><apiname>RFile64::AdoptFromServer()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-1C9B8CFC-164C-5F00-8DEA-78F943C2902C"><p> <xref href="GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7.dita#GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7/GUID-F1F12145-DB88-3101-9A08-7F77B130FE03"><apiname>RFile64::AdoptFromClient()</apiname></xref> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A7DF9C14-C178-53C2-924F-972BB9386920"><p> <xref href="GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7.dita#GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7/GUID-0AD3ACA4-8453-3A8D-A77F-3102B7B93936"><apiname>RFile64::AdoptFromCreator()</apiname></xref> </p> </li>
</ul> </li>
<li id="GUID-9C7CA734-7D80-5889-9660-F0447C38CD8A"><p>Set of 64-Bit <codeph>Read()</codeph> and <codeph>Write()</codeph> APIs: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-39306BF8-834D-52C2-8976-AE765D9CF1B8"><p> <xref href="GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7.dita#GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7/GUID-69D2F421-3391-3D39-88E8-49D106047065"><apiname>RFile64::Read()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-87EFAF4A-AE3B-5114-B5EC-88655E16C5E7"><p> <xref href="GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7.dita#GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7/GUID-D8D2D145-5703-3415-9738-34924C80B6A1"><apiname>RFile64::Write()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
</ul> </li>
<li id="GUID-C5BFC289-B33A-5216-973A-BEB95F5E0E86"><p>64-Bit versions of versions
of: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-AC1E1BEE-36A5-5FDA-B4E9-DE55255E3BCD"><p> <xref href="GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0.dita#GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0/GUID-01ACE541-916F-3811-A596-E25F1EF1C409"><apiname>RFile::Size()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C4601CA8-CA7B-5BE8-944F-7806F30124E1"><p> <xref href="GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0.dita#GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0/GUID-8592B60E-70E7-37D6-AFD2-4D2A1A87C886"><apiname>RFile::SetSize()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-898FBD04-B302-53AF-9A36-F02CB3D19215"><p> <xref href="GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0.dita#GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0/GUID-07136402-8D95-3256-9591-EE4141748E15"><apiname>RFile::Seek()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-EE9376DE-DF4C-5935-B9BD-5B684A7C283E"><p> <xref href="GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0.dita#GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0/GUID-4B12909C-0BC6-3FFE-8825-FA98312F74C2"><apiname>RFile::Lock()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-30B8A5E7-792D-52A2-8CB6-932C4031C23A"><p> <xref href="GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0.dita#GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0/GUID-125FDD99-A448-33CA-A9BB-8BF8593EB445"><apiname>RFile::Unlock()</apiname></xref>. </p> </li>
</ul> </li>
</ul><p>A mechanism has been provided that assists the porting of code from
32-bit to 64-bit APIs. To assist migration, use the <xref href="GUID-F06E7AFA-F635-3DE5-9FA6-5593A25A8DBE.dita"><apiname>_F32_STRICT_64_BIT_MIGRATION</apiname></xref> macro
to force compiler errors if <codeph>TInt</codeph> or<codeph>TUint</codeph> variables
are used. <note>This does not guarantee that all areas of code will be highlighted.
For example, a function can operate on a large file using 32-bit APIs, which
can only be guaranteed to be detected by close code inspection. </note></p><p>The
legacy 32-bit versions of <xref href="GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0.dita#GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0/GUID-07136402-8D95-3256-9591-EE4141748E15"><apiname>RFile::Seek()</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0.dita#GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0/GUID-01ACE541-916F-3811-A596-E25F1EF1C409"><apiname>RFile::Size()</apiname></xref> are
privately overloaded so that any software that migrates from <xref href="GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0.dita"><apiname>RFile</apiname></xref> to <xref href="GUID-83A415A0-F417-3CA5-BA10-5AEF119AB1F7.dita"><apiname>RFile64</apiname></xref> without
updating their code to use the <codeph>TInt64</codeph> versions of these APIs
will encounter build errors. This guarantees that 64-bit aware clients will
use the correct APIs. </p> <p><b>Compatibility</b></p><p>A file opened by a 32-bit client can also be opened by a client with
64-bit awareness, and as a result the size of this file can grow beyond the
2GB-1 boundary if the 64-bit client increases the size of the file. This can
result in the client experiencing situations where an error (<codeph>KErrTooBig</codeph>,
or a negative file size) is returned by calls to <xref href="GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0.dita#GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0/GUID-01ACE541-916F-3811-A596-E25F1EF1C409"><apiname>RFile::Size()</apiname></xref> or
to <xref href="GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0.dita#GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0/GUID-07136402-8D95-3256-9591-EE4141748E15"><apiname>RFile::Seek()</apiname></xref>. </p> <p>The 32-bit function <xref href="GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0.dita#GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0/GUID-94CCC141-8E26-3FA3-A222-D9A658AEA8A9"><apiname>RFile::Read()</apiname></xref> returns <codeph>KErrTooBig</codeph> when
attempting to read from a position greater than 2GB–1. This did not occur
before the File Server was enhanced as a large file could not be opened. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-DB207810-B599-4DBC-8760-02FED87DB4DC"><title>File server</title><p>The file server has been modified to
handle 64-bit parameters from the user to the file system. Currently, the
arguments representing file size, position and length for <xref href="GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0.dita#GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0/GUID-4B12909C-0BC6-3FFE-8825-FA98312F74C2"><apiname>RFile::Lock()</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0.dita#GUID-BE0804F6-4375-3C8A-8C83-968F510466E0/GUID-9083CCAD-F9ED-36FB-9C80-79D2F1B46B77"><apiname>RFile::UnLock()</apiname></xref> are
stored in a <xref href="GUID-4AD02F14-1142-372F-9D11-224595932034.dita"><apiname>TIpcArgs</apiname></xref> object and are sent to the server
using <xref href="GUID-6D8A458C-9A39-3000-A3BC-060A2A3663E6.dita#GUID-6D8A458C-9A39-3000-A3BC-060A2A3663E6/GUID-479FE087-DD9F-31D7-98F7-9F96535F0584"><apiname>RSessionBase::SendReceive()</apiname></xref> as a file server request. </p><p>As
these parameters do not require more than 32-bits, they are packaged as <codeph>TInt</codeph> values
in a <codeph>TIpcArgs</codeph> slot. When <codeph>Lock()</codeph> and <codeph>UnLock()</codeph> require
64-bit values for position, size and length, these values are packaged using
a package descriptor that is stored in the <codeph>TIpcArgs</codeph> instead
of the value itself. </p><p>On the file server side the following changes
have been implemented:<ul>
<li id="GUID-DFE1E1A6-E46F-5246-8C04-02E14A411B36"><p>The server now handles
64-bit wide <keyword>IPC</keyword> parameters from the client library, only
when the value is greater than 32 bits. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-5AF36E4B-D085-5842-949E-AB2FA132A0BB"><p>File server side classes
have been modified to use 64-bit file sizes. This includes changes to operations
that enable file sharing, cache, file lock &amp; asynchronous requests, position
and lock/unlock section lengths. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F95C5CA0-876E-5B6C-8E47-B1A35B4C3A6E"><p>Calls to the file system's
32-bit functions from within the file server have been replaced with calls
to 64-bit variants. </p> </li>
</ul></p><p>See <xref href="GUID-2E4C50DE-AF0A-5393-A1FB-F739653EB727.dita">Interfacing
File Systems to the 64-bit File Server</xref>. </p> <p><b>IPC</b></p><p>64-Bit APIs require an additional IPC data transfer between
file server &amp; client when accessing file data beyond 4GB-1. This IPC overhead
is expected to impose some degradation in performance when using cached I/O,
particularly when issuing requests for small quantities of data (compared
to the equivalent operations below the 4GB boundary and legacy APIs where
no additional IPC is required). </p></section>
<section id="GUID-BAFC691E-56EB-46A5-89FA-D10CB7E971A4"><title>FAT32 file system</title><p>The standard FAT32 file system
only supports file sizes up to 4GB-1. The current <xref href="GUID-D3C0AFFC-EE30-32ED-89A2-71023EB28A4D.dita#GUID-D3C0AFFC-EE30-32ED-89A2-71023EB28A4D/GUID-1585DE93-228D-3BAF-8016-7364B4F983BE"><apiname>CFatFileCB::MExtendedFileInterface</apiname></xref> restricts
operations to sizes less than 2GB-1. The FAT32 file system has been modified
to support files of sizes up to 4GB–1. </p><p>The <xref href="GUID-D3C0AFFC-EE30-32ED-89A2-71023EB28A4D.dita#GUID-D3C0AFFC-EE30-32ED-89A2-71023EB28A4D/GUID-1585DE93-228D-3BAF-8016-7364B4F983BE"><apiname>CFatFileCB::MExtendedFileInterface</apiname></xref> implementation
has been altered to allow operations up to 4GB–1. All <codeph>signed int</codeph> and <codeph>TInt</codeph> types
are now treated as <codeph>unsigned int</codeph> and <codeph>TUint</codeph> to
support large file access. </p><p>The <xref href="GUID-FADDE053-CC1C-39BC-A52D-27093041BE20.dita#GUID-FADDE053-CC1C-39BC-A52D-27093041BE20/GUID-18B9D722-1EAB-38E4-9027-4CED524E8A9B"><apiname>CMountCB::MFileExtendedInterface</apiname></xref> class
has been introduced along with the <xref href="GUID-63DF657C-434D-353D-A536-8AF9D97C8260.dita#GUID-63DF657C-434D-353D-A536-8AF9D97C8260/GUID-E57D0ED6-C351-37F4-8E80-5A64144B6655"><apiname>CFileCB::MExtendedFileInterface</apiname></xref> class
to support reading large files from RFs, as described in the tutorials <xref href="GUID-2E4C50DE-AF0A-5393-A1FB-F739653EB727.dita#GUID-2E4C50DE-AF0A-5393-A1FB-F739653EB727/GUID-43DF580B-45D3-501B-A014-5CDF0B0B3FE2">Using
the CMountCB function ReadSectionL()</xref> and <xref href="GUID-2E4C50DE-AF0A-5393-A1FB-F739653EB727.dita#GUID-2E4C50DE-AF0A-5393-A1FB-F739653EB727/GUID-BF5DB004-7BBC-5960-8726-1CAF98CE2790">Using
the CFileCB functions ReadL(), WriteL() and SetSizeL()</xref>. </p> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-B69FE02E-3A78-5438-BA7C-F7BB4CD3EB76.dita"><linktext>File Server
Client Side Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-F0D5C8DB-3AD0-53F1-8301-C0F69A4F13C1.dita"><linktext>More about
the File Server</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>