<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-B57857D6-F00B-458A-8194-42CACA0BF131" xml:lang="en"><title>Starting
the device vibra</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context>       <p>The <codeph>StartVibraL()</codeph> call starts the device
vibration feature. If <codeph>StartVibraL()</codeph> is called again before
the first vibration completes, the first vibration is interrupted and the
second vibrations starts immediately, that is, the periods of vibration are
not cumulative. The vibration can be interrupted with the method <codeph>StopVibraL()</codeph> before
the specified interval has elapsed. Vibra settings of the vibration feature
in the user profile must be active.</p> <note> The device may have implementation
defined or hardware imposed limits to the duration of the vibration feature.
In such circumstances, any vibration is cut off at that limit even if the
duration parameter is greater than the limit.</note><p>The following code
snippet demonstrates how to start the device vibration feature with factory-defined
intensity:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">iVibra-&gt;StartVibraL( 5000 ); // Start vibra for five seconds.</codeblock><p>The
following code snippet demonstrates how to start the device vibration feature
with client-defined intensity:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">iVibra-&gt;StartVibraL( 5000, 50 ); // Start vibra for five seconds with intensity 50.</codeblock></context>
</taskbody></task>