<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-F532D96F-7CB0-5CC7-9382-0CF44F7C0234" xml:lang="en"><title>Domain
Name Daemon</title><shortdesc>Domain Name Daemon (DND) is an application that provides dynamic
name resolution services for Symbian platform. DND supports IETF specifications. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The following are the DND services: </p>
<ul>
<li id="GUID-3182F90B-B12F-52D4-9698-68EF0FBC75FD"><p>Domain Name System (DNS) </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-43C42397-677D-548C-BD64-E07B98B7F66F"><p>Link-local Multicast
Name Resolution (LLMNR) </p> </li>
</ul>
<p>DND is a single-threaded application and runs in own process. DND programs
are specified in <i>tcpip.ini</i> file and uses the following components: </p>
<ul>
<li id="GUID-4912716E-32FE-5F30-86C8-722CE8EA8CCE"><p>FileServer - To check
the changes made to <i>hosts</i> file, when the DND receives a query request. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-77503F18-0245-5AFE-8C48-E6BA74F06611"><p>CommsDat - To retrieve
configuration parameters like hostname for LLMNR. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C643DFDF-2ADD-54F6-8CC2-EA8393F3CF74"><p>TCP/IP stack - To provide
communication services and interface information for DND. </p> </li>
</ul>
<p>The TCP/IP stack starts the DND during the stack startup and stops at TCP/IP
stack shutdown. The Symbian platform differs in architecture from the Unix
resolver library implementations. The TCP/IP protocol module implements the
name of the internet resolver which is then shared by all applications. </p>
<p>DND is compiled into a <filepath>dnd.exe</filepath> file and is linked
against <filepath>efsrv.dll</filepath>, <filepath>inhook6.dll</filepath>, <filepath>insock.dll</filepath>, <filepath>esock.dll</filepath>, <filepath>commsdat.dll</filepath> and <filepath>euser.dll</filepath>. </p>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-95C166C3-2A25-55FB-88BD-62B7EFED2F8E.dita"><linktext>How to use
Domain Name                 Resolution</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>