<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-176FD8C9-B4A9-5B50-B683-AB5DA7D5D6F4" xml:lang="en"><title>CreateStaticDLL
and UseStaticDLL: using a statically linked DLL</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section><title>Description</title> <p>The example shows how a class implemented
in a statically linked DLL is used. The DLL is built by <filepath>CreateStaticDLL</filepath> and
is used by <filepath>UseStaticDLL</filepath>. </p> </section>
<section><title>Download</title> <p>Click on the following link to download
the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-2e2b4dbb-291f-428c-82bf-fe796b4f50f4.zip" scope="external">StaticDLL.zip</xref></p><p>Click on the following link to
download additional files: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-bd05bfa4-e51c-4cf7-b327-646b0b9e814d.zip" scope="external">CommonFramework.zip</xref>.</p><p>Click<xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-2e2b4dbb-291f-428c-82bf-fe796b4f50f4.html" scope="peer"> browse StaticDLL</xref> to view the example code. </p><p>Click <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-bd05bfa4-e51c-4cf7-b327-646b0b9e814d.html" scope="peer">browse CommonFramework</xref>  to view additional
files.</p> </section>
<section><title>Build and Usage</title> <p>It may be in the directory in which
you installed Symbian platform, or it may be in <filepath>src\common\developerlibrary\</filepath>.
It includes the project files needed for building: <filepath>bld.inf</filepath> and
two <filepath>.mmp</filepath> files. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-3100800B-B2F7-50EF-BD4C-3C345ECCB2A5.dita">The
Symbian platform build process</xref> describes how to build Symbian programs.
To run this example: </p> <ol id="GUID-C12016AA-4582-5812-BD1B-4D36A27679EB">
<li id="GUID-9CC286FF-4935-5C53-A5D5-486A280E4437"><p>Build <filepath>CreateStaticDLL</filepath> project,
which results in the following: </p> <p> <filepath>\epoc32\release\&lt;target&gt;\&lt;urel
or                 udeb&gt;\CREATESTATICDLL.DLL</filepath>. </p> <p> <filepath>\epoc32\release\&lt;target&gt;\&lt;urel
or                 udeb&gt;\CREATESTATICDLL.lib</filepath>. </p> <p>They are
needed by the <filepath>UseStaticDLL</filepath> project. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-BE21E3AF-9D89-5CC3-915E-1688BCC49866"><p>Build <filepath>UseStaticDLL</filepath>,
which results in: </p> <p> <filepath>\epoc32\release\&lt;target&gt;\&lt;urel
or                 udeb&gt;\USESTATICDLL.EXE</filepath>. </p> <p>This project
use the DLL created in the previous steps. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-E857288D-77D6-58E5-971A-7FFF8B95E843"><p>Run the executable <filepath>USESTATICDLL.EXE</filepath>. </p> <p>Executables
for the <filepath>winscw</filepath> target can be run on your PC. Executables
for ARM targets must be copied to a phone before being run. </p> </li>
</ol> </section>
</conbody></concept>