<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-AE979B97-5610-42F3-99A7-5A3D66D3C2E6" xml:lang="en"><title>Sensor
interaction</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The following types of interaction are enabled by using the sensors on
the device:</p>
<ol>
<li id="GUID-3EA00C46-70FB-4C6F-8B9D-B766FA8C0692"><p>Tapping the device (for
example, double tap) to perform a given function.<note> Tapping interaction
is not recommended for touch devices since the tap might also be interpreted
as a touch action if you tap on the touch screen area.</note></p></li>
<li id="GUID-BB715BEE-CB95-4F0E-9676-8CDE8D525C02"><p>Changing the screen
orientation on the device from portrait to landscape as the device is rotated.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-69332FF5-EDD2-4EA9-8569-A72BE7DA9961"><p>Silencing an incoming
call when the device orientation is changed from screen down (for example
on a table) to screen up and back again).</p></li>
<li id="GUID-FF0D8D87-D2A9-4206-A6A4-98EDE1A0BAA0"><p>Changing application
settings based on the ambient light conditions, e.g. bright sunshine or night
time.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-D3B06257-1088-43A5-9D2E-513971297EAE"><p>In a map application,
changing the orientation of a map based on the device's compass orientation.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-2414DEDE-D503-4798-AA6C-B5F8D85BB147"><p>Allowing movement gestures,
such as device rotation, to trigger an action.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-1B8F18AC-08C3-4F6D-8A91-7EAE8CFADD5B"><p>Trigger an action when
the device comes in close proximity to the user's hand or head.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>The supported sensor interactions are configurable on the device. The users
should be given the option to set their desired interactions.</p>
<p>Apart from sensing actions, the device can give tactile (vibrating) feedback
to acknowledge that the interaction has been successful.</p>
<section id="GUID-4C7164D8-5EAB-45D1-AD32-1DAD8B1F8AC0"><title>Using
sensor interaction in applications</title><p>The APIs to use for sensor interaction
are the Sensor channel API and the Sensor definitions API. </p><p>For implementation
information and description of the APIs, see the <xref href="GUID-2F3883C4-7286-42E4-9196-2F3304298405.dita">API
specification</xref> for the sensor APIs.</p><p>Sensors channels come in three
types based on the kind of data that is delivered on the sensor channel: event,
status, and continuous data. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-7A487E17-8772-4037-8234-A99929476ED7.dita">Definitions
for the sensor APIs</xref>.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>