<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-92459911-6FD1-47D7-8FBD-63BB43106757" xml:lang="en"><title>Installing an installer</title><shortdesc>The Software Installation Framework (SIF) enables you to
create installers for installing software. An installer is generally
made up of an install server and plug-in. The plug-in encapsulates
the logic for the management of the software type and the install
server performs the installation whenever there is a request from
SIF. Installers can be In-ROM (pre-provisioned in the device during
device creation) or Post-Market (installed and registered using USIF
after the device is shipped).</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<steps id="GUID-4DD07DEC-6017-4237-BE46-1D69E5FBD744-GENID-1-12-1-5-1-1-6-1-4-1-4-1-4-1-3-1">
<step id="GUID-98FE9F77-6B47-489D-99B1-51FAA5575015"><cmd>To register
the installer with USIF:</cmd>
<substeps id="GUID-AE447EC5-5254-4819-991D-18E54BA09206">
<substep id="GUID-58F469FB-4511-40BC-9DA0-B71CC2E3D0B5"><cmd>For In-ROM
Installers, the developer must inform the AppInstall Package Owner
about the installer details to be configured. For more details, refer<xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/main/source/packages/appinstall" scope="external">Application Installation</xref> </cmd>
<info><p>The installer registration details that must be delivered
to the AppInstall team are <ul id="599B1032-5CD0-4577-9DDA-B754DB4340BA">
<li><p>unique software type name (such as ”native”, “java”)</p></li>
<li><p>Sif plug-in uid ( ECom implementation ID)</p></li>
<li><p> launcher executable (native executable to be used by apparc
to launch non-native applications of given type)</p></li>
<li><p>custom access secure Id(s)</p></li>
<li><p>MIME Type(s)</p></li>
<li><p>localized software type names (optional)</p></li>
</ul></p></info>
</substep>
<substep id="GUID-4C83506C-C334-420E-92BF-84EA613098D0"><cmd>For Post-Market
Installers, the <xref href="GUID-92459911-6FD1-47D7-8FBD-63BB43106757.dita#GUID-92459911-6FD1-47D7-8FBD-63BB43106757/599B1032-5CD0-4577-9DDA-B754DB4340BA">installer details</xref> must be configured using a
Software Type Registration file. This is a<filepath>.xml</filepath> file. The file must be a part of the installer SIS package. For
example, if the package UID is  0x77534946, the Software Type Registration
file must be copied to <filepath>\resource\usif\leestore\77534946.xml</filepath> using the installer package.</cmd>
<info><p>A sample Software Type Registration file is described below.</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;!DOCTYPE LayeredExecutionEnvironments SYSTEM "swtype.dtd"&gt;
&lt;LayeredExecutionEnvironments&gt;
&lt;softwareType name="native"&gt;
&lt;localizedName language="15"&gt;testSwTypeLoc15&lt;/localizedName&gt;
&lt;localizedName language="31"&gt;testSwTypeLoc31&lt;/localizedName&gt;
&lt;mimeType&gt;binary/sif-testpkg&lt;/mimeType&gt;
&lt;sifPluginUid&gt;102866EF&lt;/sifPluginUid&gt;
&lt;CustomAcess SecureId="10285BCB" AccessMode="1"/&gt;
&lt;CustomAcess SecureId="80285DE0" AccessMode="1"/&gt;
&lt;launcherExecutable&gt;testLauncherExecutable&lt;/launcherExecutable&gt;
&lt;/softwareType&gt;
&lt;/LayeredExecutionEnvironments&gt;</codeblock></info>
<info><p>For more details about the install server and the plug-in,
refer to <xref href="GUID-51EDBA17-41AF-58FB-A96F-D5A136F83977.dita">Creating
an Installer</xref>.</p></info>
</substep>
</substeps>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody></task>