<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-D9AEB0C8-D219-5DC6-B3D9-6D029F190902" xml:lang="en"><title>Category:
Agenda Model</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Agenda model utility panics:</p>
<table id="GUID-A05F6767-19A8-5B49-8C84-A692BC50B98D">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>0</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The agenda model is in a state inconsistent with an action being
requested of it. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>1</p> </entry>
<entry><p>An entry contains bad or conflicting data.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>2</p> </entry>
<entry><p>A to-do list contains bad or conflicting data.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>3</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The to-do defaults contain bad or conflicting data.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>4</p> </entry>
<entry><p>An agenda entry does not contain any rich text.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>5</p> </entry>
<entry><p>An agenda date or time has a <i>NULL</i> value.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>6</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Attempted to cast a <codeph>CAgnEntry</codeph> to a <codeph>CAgnAppt</codeph> when
the type of entry is not <codeph>EAppt</codeph>.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>7</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Attempted to cast a <codeph>CAgnEntry</codeph> to a <codeph>CAgnEvent</codeph> when
the type of entry is not <codeph>EEvent</codeph> or <codeph>EAnniv</codeph>.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>8</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Attempted to cast a <codeph>CAgnEntry</codeph> to a <codeph>CAgnAnniv</codeph> when
the type of entry is not <codeph>EAnniv</codeph>.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>9</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Attempted to cast a <codeph>CAgnEntry</codeph> to a <codeph>CAgnTodo</codeph> when
the type of entry is not <codeph>ETodo</codeph>.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>10</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Attempted to set a date outside of the valid agenda model date range.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>11</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Attempted to access an array element outside the array bounds.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>12</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Null pointer specified.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>13</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Attempted to delete an agenda item that was not found.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>14</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The iterator has been assigned a null index.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>15</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The iterator is out of range.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>16</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The entry has a null time.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>17</p> </entry>
<entry><p>A parameter with a null date value was specified.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>18</p> </entry>
<entry><p>All instances of a repeating entry are exceptions.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>19</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Tried to fetch an instance that couldn't be generated from the repeat
details.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>20</p> </entry>
<entry><p>An error has occurred in the entry cluster management. When storing
the buffer there are more entries in it than the allowable maximum.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>21</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Performed an operation on an entry that has been marked as deleted.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>22</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Sort entry not found in index.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>23</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Requested an index that does not exist.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>24</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The stream from which an entry originates is different from the
stream to which it is being updated or deleted.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>25</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Called <codeph>CAgnAlarm::RequestServerTerminationNotification()</codeph> more
than once.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>26</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Called <codeph>CAgnAlarm::RequestServerTerminationNotification()</codeph> with
a callback set.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>27</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Agenda model filter priority is invalid.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>28</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Agenda model filter maximum priority has not been set.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>29</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Crossed out entries are not included in tidy filter.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>30</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Called an unsupported function.</p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody></concept>