<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-97FFA8D2-4515-448B-8107-61151F252048" xml:lang="en"><title>Content security</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Information content security can be defined in many ways. The most common way is to determine the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information.</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Confidentiality defines the privacy level of the information and the importance of its content to critical operations. There may be different levels of confidentiality, which are defined by the author and the policies of the system. Information that is not classified as confidential is considered public.</p></li>
<li><p>Integrity classifies information according to its importance to operations. At the highest level of integrity, the information should remain intact at all times, without fragmentation or delays in updates.</p></li>
<li><p>Availability is the most important factor if the information must be accessible without interruption for operational reasons.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>By applying <xref href="GUID-A1ED2377-E196-423F-A5A2-1889C1CC3E05.dita">cryptography</xref> to the elements above, you can introduce additional security features, such as traceability, access control, authentication, and repudiation.</p>
<p>Any data that is stored in the application <codeph>\private\&lt;SID&gt;\</codeph> folder can be considered safe, since other applications need the <codeph>AllFiles</codeph> <xref href="GUID-6971B0A2-F79B-4E05-8AF3-BB1FC1932A22.dita">capability</xref> to read or write to this location.</p>
<p>The following aspects of content security  are covered in this section:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-E9E5556C-101B-48F2-B9AA-9DBEF5D85D5E.dita">Backup and restore</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-A1ED2377-E196-423F-A5A2-1889C1CC3E05.dita">Cryptography</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-5F38F219-B22D-42E6-973A-B4DBBC5984F8.dita">Digital
rights management</xref></p></li>
</ul>
</conbody></concept>