<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-A243699D-699C-5E45-A000-54C8DB4FF7AB" xml:lang="en"><title>Multimedia
Framework Overview</title><shortdesc>This document introduces you to the Multimedia Framework component.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The Multimedia Framework (MMF) is a lightweight
multithreaded ECOM-plugin based framework which is used for playing and recording
audio and video data. It offers client utilities for common audio and video
tasks. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-D2AD9327-54A4-5D73-94E0-4E09577AD7BD"><title>Required background</title> <p>The <xref href="GUID-D6BB18FE-289D-546F-97DC-389B57B5B2E3.dita">Multimedia APIs and Frameworks
Overview</xref> provides an introduction to the MMF and related components. </p> </section>
<section><title>Architectural relationships</title> <p>MMF is a framework
component in the Multimedia APIs and Frameworks collection. </p> </section>
<section><title> API summary</title> <p>The MMF component includes the following
APIs: </p> <table id="GUID-FA16B202-7DCE-526D-AD7C-E1297545FB70">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>API</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Audio Client</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Provides functionality for audio playing, recording, and conversion. </p> <p>For
more information, see <xref href="GUID-D62A282E-9DEA-5EF3-A606-20647BC5049D.dita">Audio
Client Overview</xref>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Audio Input Streaming</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Provides functionality for opening, setting audio and mobile equipment
properties, to read and close the stream. </p> <p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-715E0EA4-8B3D-5DDF-B773-922E367B114F.dita">Audio Input Streaming Overview</xref>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Audio Output Streaming</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Provides functionality for opening, setting audio properties, to
write and close the stream. </p> <p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-68417158-D625-56BF-BDD5-BE49A7651CED.dita">Audio
Output Streaming Overview</xref>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>GSM 6.10 Codec Implementation</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Provides speech encoding and decoding functionality using GSM 6.10
full rate. </p> <p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-ED109E7B-EFCA-59B9-92D9-EBFBC0F8BF21.dita">GSM
6.10 Codec Implementation Overview</xref>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Media Client Observer</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Provides functionality to monitor and to handle events during audio
record and convert operations. </p> <p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-E92BEA67-CF92-5E0E-8B0D-F918178CE9E8.dita">Media
Client Observer Overview</xref>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>MIDI Client</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Provides functionality to open, to play and obtain information in
MIDI format. </p> <p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-61E219A3-7D9D-5AAA-B6B3-61F0749E12B3.dita">MIDI
Client Overview</xref>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Video Client</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Provides functionality to record and play back video clips with
and without attached audio. </p> <p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-2DC80BA9-7AA2-5CD3-9105-1DE28CE196C1.dita">Video
Client Overview</xref>. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
<section><title>Typical uses</title> <p>The MMF Framework component is used
for the following tasks: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-FE3F209B-A7A1-5439-8082-B29722BF6F80"><p>To manipulate advance
audio features like to play back, record, and convert sound clips. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B10A305F-3301-5802-B43B-E153D2315C08"><p>Enable to play the tone
sequences and the DTMF (Dual-Tone Multi-Frequency) strings. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-5BDE9E01-F288-5842-8F15-39073D4B6B7B"><p>To play, open, control,
retrieve information and handle notifications for MIDI format. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-FBD58B74-1518-5A1F-BEDC-0236992B993C"><p>To manipulate advance
video features like to record and play back video clips. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>See also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-DDF4EA2E-59D6-5FE0-9C61-C5A9CBD8D4FE.dita">Multimedia
Utility Library Overview</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-2D3F7471-9B92-5E49-B8BC-E0FA7AA709D7.dita">DevSound
Overview</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-EB58901D-66BD-56BF-B0CD-5FC4F73F06F3.dita">DevVideo
Overview</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-9782BF84-B91C-5D7C-BFAD-6B7E6A9ADD02.dita">Device
Framework Overview</xref>  </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>