<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-2DBA78FC-C6F9-5183-8818-59335580D5D2" xml:lang="en"><title> Packet
Service Functions Tutorial</title><shortdesc>This section describes how to use the packet data service functions
for the packet switched networks. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context>The <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService</apiname></xref> class describes the packet
switched connections.</context>



<steps id="GUID-037B73D0-C640-5D27-B533-BF09F7DBE83B">
<step id="GUID-2D8866FD-5143-53CF-811D-875982843B0F"><cmd>Create an instance
of <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPhone.</apiname></xref>  </cmd>
</step>
<step id="GUID-E7D82692-A6AF-5246-A213-A53FBD0F1FD9"><cmd>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::Open()</apiname></xref> to
create a packet service sub-session to the packet switched network. </cmd>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketSercvice::NotifyContextAdded()</apiname></xref> to
get the notification of any new context added to the device </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-E140F828-DD51-5931-8752-4FDDED56CEBB"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::Attach()</apiname></xref> to
request the telephony server to attach the device to a packet service connection. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-5DECFCF1-1A77-5BF7-91D0-62528CE7BBD0"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::Detach()</apiname></xref> to
request the device to remove from a packet service. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-7B97034C-A102-54C2-A39D-4B52369947C1"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::GetStatus()</apiname></xref> to
retrieve the network status of the packet service. </info>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::NotifyStatusChange()</apiname></xref> to
get the notification of any changes to the packet service network status. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-165D6276-A73A-554F-A2DA-1FE969DC0CD0"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::ContextActicvationRequest()</apiname></xref> to
get the notification of any request to activate a packet service from the
network. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-6578C6BC-337F-5D98-A46B-EC6678525F8C"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::RejectActivationRequest()</apiname></xref> to
reject the network request to activate the packet service. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-ECF85A16-D263-540C-8483-5258B6E5B60F"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::EnumerateContexts()</apiname></xref> to
retrieve the number of open contexts and the maximum number of contexts that
can be opened. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-AE6DB602-6C1F-581C-B085-E5C8613018F3"><cmd/>
<info>Use<xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname> RPacketService::CancelAsyncRequest()</apiname></xref> to
cancel an earlier request. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-BC5CA101-586E-50BD-966B-7CDE9726A288"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::GetContextInfo()</apiname></xref> to
retrieve the information of a context specified. </info>
<info>The function returns the context reference ID and the status of the
context. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-D787F47D-B777-593A-8916-3506713232FA"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::NotfyMbmsNetworkServiceStatusChange()</apiname></xref> to
get the notification of any changes to the MBMS. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-50F583E7-3F18-54AD-B08F-5037EAAA0E99"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::GetMbmsNetworkServiceStatus()</apiname></xref> to
retrieve the MBMS support of the network. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-B60694E8-A5D5-5F2D-936B-512A92C541CE"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::NotifyMbmsServiceAvailabilityChange()</apiname></xref> to
get the notification of any changes to MBMS service availability list. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-B3E16156-E8E4-540C-AC05-DBAE158A2437"><cmd/>
<info>to retrieve the MBMS service available list: </info>
<substeps id="GUID-A4EFE507-344E-4563-A6EA-591BABD937A9">
<substep id="GUID-E7A406A1-3FE7-4E05-BBC8-1C400EFBF827"><cmd/>
<info>create an instance of <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>CRetrievePcktMbmsMonitoredServices</apiname></xref> <codeblock id="GUID-A17D796D-CE02-58E2-B40B-5DA22B2AF159" xml:space="preserve">CRetrievePcktMbmsMonitoredServices* 
CRetrievePcktMbmsMonitoredServices::NewL(RPacketService&amp; aService)</codeblock> </info>
</substep>
<substep id="GUID-8D8A9E76-6138-4F87-BCC0-2082F0D2E32F"><cmd/>
<info>start an asynchronous list retrieval <codeblock id="GUID-3564FB4B-61C2-57D8-9732-A44E2DC3C4C5" xml:space="preserve">CRetrievePcktMbmsMonitoredServices::Start(TRequestStatus&amp; aReqStatus);</codeblock></info>
</substep>
<substep id="GUID-A1841293-B432-4194-904C-7615BF9931CE"><cmd/>
<info>retrieve the list <codeblock id="GUID-15E4B83C-912F-534F-8485-E5E529507CB3" xml:space="preserve">CPcktMbmsMonitoredServiceList*
CRetrievePcktMbmsMonitoredServices::RetrieveListL() const</codeblock></info>
</substep>
<substep id="GUID-5A5F3ADA-32C0-41BF-BED2-BB0AE61C22F4"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>CRetrievePcktMbmsMonitoredServices::Cancel()</apiname></xref> to
cancel the request to retrieve the list </info>
</substep>
</substeps>
</step>
<step id="GUID-118EB20E-3EE7-59E9-9DE7-410972BB3EBA"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::UpdateMbmsMonitorServiceListL()</apiname></xref> to
update the MBMS service availability list. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-71AEF0AD-FF8B-558A-81A0-77C234CBDDFA"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::EnumerateMbmsMonitorServiceList()</apiname></xref> to
retrieve the number of MBMS services monitored and the maximum number of MBMS
services supported by the device. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-3B88CA6B-0166-5A88-BBCC-9BA379E661FB"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::GetNtwkRegStatus()</apiname></xref> to
retrieve the packet service registration of the device with the network. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-BEF32B31-DA79-5F6D-9D45-CA99C7018285"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::NotifyChangeOfNtwkRegStatus()</apiname></xref> to
get the notification of any changes to the status of the network registration </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-EC4EDEBC-8D09-5C08-9E1A-D73458284736"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::GetMSClass()</apiname></xref> to
retrieve the current class and the maximum class of the device. </info>
<info>The types of the mobile classes are defined in the <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>TMSClass</apiname></xref> enumeration. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-46524C10-1F55-5A14-A4B0-0F856BE9710C"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::SetMSClass()</apiname></xref> to
set the type of class to be used by the device. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-74DBF22B-0FC8-56F0-9B62-28DEC97BB7DE"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::NotifyMSClassChange()</apiname></xref> to
get the notification of any change to the class of the device. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-07344F4D-BF7A-5EDB-B7F6-1FA58BE290AA"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::GetStaticCaps()</apiname></xref> to
retrieve the static capabilities of the device. </info>
<info>The static capabilities are defined in the <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>TStaticMiscCaps</apiname></xref> enumeration. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-B82E52AC-FB1A-5566-983A-F674BCA4B309"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::GetDynamicCaps()</apiname></xref> to
retrieve the dynamic capabilities of the device. </info>
<info>The dynamic capabilities are defined in the <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>TDynamicCaps</apiname></xref> enumeration. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-F5687EC0-F810-5BC2-A311-5A70392D3EA3"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::NotifyDynamicCapsChange()</apiname></xref> to
get the notification of any changes in the dynamic capabilities of the device. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-B030ADAE-6633-57F3-97C8-234C593787E0"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::SetPreferredBearer()</apiname></xref> to
set the bearer for the class C devices. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-C1DFDAF8-BCE9-525A-B1D1-03C6A322B6A3"><cmd/>
<info>Use<xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname> RPacketService::GetPreferredBearer()</apiname></xref> to
retrieve the current bearer for Class C mode. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-5113DCB3-E918-59DB-A090-C36B0518ECFD"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::SetAttachMode()</apiname></xref> to
instruct the device on how to connect to a packet service. </info>
<info>The device can attach to the packet service when available or when required.
The types of attach modes are defined in <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>TAttachMode</apiname></xref> enumeration. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-88AE1AEB-2E81-5FF2-9EED-887FDAB71234"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::GetAttachMode()</apiname></xref> to
get the current attach mode defined for the device. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-346785BB-FDB3-5D4C-B0DC-EEC2B8899F94"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::NotifyAttachModeChange()</apiname></xref> to
get the notification of any changes to the packet service attach mode. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-009B9C1E-AF04-57E9-9477-010D2DC651D4"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::SetDefaultContextParams()</apiname></xref> to
set the default context parameters. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-D11F0371-6678-566C-961D-AF05C8C3F7DD"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::GetDefaultContextParams()</apiname></xref> to
get the default context parameters used. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-9E873274-7C3C-5F0D-859B-121D6C725856"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RTelSubSessionBase::CancelAsyncRequest()</apiname></xref> to
cancel any of the asynchronous commands. </info>
<info>Use <codeph>aReqToCancel</codeph> parameter to define the command to
be cancelled. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-17285363-9400-517A-AA28-9699CA2DC2B2"><cmd/>
<info>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::Close()</apiname></xref> to
close a packet service connection </info>
</step>
</steps>
<postreq id="GUID-6383FD6A-00E4-5B15-854B-3383A5749B42"><p>Release a network
when the device is outside the home network. </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-7A4EBBAB-BA31-5C58-9D7A-956BDDED7252"><p>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::GetCurrentReleaseMode()</apiname></xref> to
get the current release mode. </p> <p>The release mode is defined in the <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>TPacketReleaseMode</apiname></xref> enumeration. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-02E408B5-AEDD-57FB-9F16-B6AF69E015EB"><p>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RPacketService::NotifyReleaseModeChange()</apiname></xref> to
get the notification of any changes to the release mode. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-83B6A979-C1CF-5098-A0F9-6BC5AC32FF60"><p>Use <xref href="GUID-C20F4764-4DE4-336D-9785-3A232C9A2CC0.dita"><apiname>RTelSubSessionBase::CancelAsyncRequest() </apiname></xref> cancel
the commands </p> </li>
</ul> </postreq>
</taskbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-95A3AE07-19CE-5EAC-9866-109EB2757B83.dita"><linktext>Network Interface
                Tutorial</linktext></link>
</related-links></task>