<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-7A7254E3-A03A-5B38-B2B5-FFEEE70F5E93" xml:lang="en"><title>Embedded
SIS Files</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>An embedded SIS file is a file that is placed in another SIS file. Embedded
SIS files are useful for packaging multiple components into a single SIS file.
These components can be removed independent of one another. For example, if
a SIS file needs to install an application and a library that is shared with
other installed applications, the shared library can be installed as an embedded
SIS file, so that when the application is uninstalled, the shared library
remains on the Symbian device if required. </p>
<p>Embedded SIS files are installed and removed along with the file that is
embedding the SIS file. However, an embedded SIS file cannot be removed if
another installed component has declared a <xref href="GUID-DB220677-5998-529C-BE35-0D66F588E057.dita">dependency</xref> on
it. This depends on the security policy setting, <codeph>RemoveOnlyWithLastDependent</codeph> defined
in the installation policy file.</p>
<p>For information see, <xref href="GUID-F8C2E97C-35EC-5437-BC6B-E2A622D2DC4D.dita">Secure
Software Install Reference</xref>. </p>
<p>The Nested (embedding and the embedded) SIS files are processed as separate
installations. This means that the Embedding (outer) SIS file does not propagate
capabilities to the embedded (inner) SIS file. However, an Embedding (outer)
SIS file can be dependent on an embedded SIS file. </p>
<p> <b>Note</b>: If the installation of the embedded SIS fails, the entire
installation fails. </p>
<p>An embedded SIS file can be a partial upgrade (<codeph>PU</codeph>) or
patch upgrade (<codeph>SP</codeph>) package type. However, the base package
must have already been installed on the Symbian device. This implies that
if the base package and the upgrade are both embedded in the same SIS file,
the statement that installs the base package must occur in the source PKG
file before the statement that installs the upgrade or patch. </p>
</conbody></concept>