<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-7F8F830A-990C-5DDF-9D8F-28C89BFA755A" xml:lang="en"><title>Profile
Server Configuration Settings</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The Configuration Settings of the Profile Server are a set of configurable
parameters that affect the behaviour of the profile server. </p>
<p>This topic describes the Key Schema for the Configuration Settings. </p>
<section><title>Key Schema for Configuration Settings</title> <p>Profile Server
settings are configured using a 32 bit Key in CenRep. </p> <p>The first 8
bits of the Key define the table. The interpretation of the remaining 24 bits
of the Key is specific to the table. </p> <p>The existing table is Profile
Property Table(<xref href="GUID-83C00508-A66F-3EC5-A6F1-FF2A32843FBD.dita"><apiname>KSIPProfilePropertiesTable</apiname></xref>): </p> <p><b id="GUID-BE144F7F-BFB6-4DD2-A69A-FC6611E9E1A0">Key Schema for Profile Property
Table</b> </p><p>For the Profile Property Table, the 24 bits constitute the
Profile Type and Profile Property.</p><table id="GUID-12E130F4-2C56-4183-98F8-9334A1E7CCA0">
<title/>
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><colspec colname="col3"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry valign="top">8 bits</entry>
<entry valign="top">8 bits </entry>
<entry valign="top">16 bits </entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Profile Property Table   </entry>
<entry> Profile Type</entry>
<entry> Profile Property   </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>Profile Types are defined as enum TSIPProfileClass in sipproifiletypeinfo.h
.    </p><p> Profile Properties are defined as enum TProfileProperty in sipprofileagentextensionparams.h
.</p><p>The enum values for Profile Type and Profile Property has to be incremented
by 1 before the key is formed. This approach is adapted for better key intepretation
since the enum values start from 0.</p> </section>
<example><title> Example</title><p>The following example shows how to form
a Key to set the default Registration duration for IETF profile in Profile
Property Table.</p><p>The value defined for Profile Property Table asKSIPProfilePropertiesTable(0x01000000).</p><p>The
value defined for Profile Type IETF in enum TSIPProfileClass is EInternet(0)
.</p><p>The value defined for 'Profile Property' 'Registration' in enumTProfileProperty
is EProfileRegistrationValue (0). </p><p>The resulting Key formed is: </p><ul>
<li><table id="GUID-DA631731-9B50-4CEF-B0DF-4E1D7F477D0B">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><colspec colname="col3"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry valign="top">Table </entry>
<entry valign="top"> Profile Type</entry>
<entry valign="top">Profile Property</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 </entry>
<entry>0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 </entry>
<entry>0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1  </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></li>
<li><table id="GUID-EE9E72D4-FD17-4415-91B8-ADC7D6C3CCEE">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><colspec colname="col3"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry valign="top">Table </entry>
<entry valign="top"> Profile Type</entry>
<entry valign="top">Profile Property </entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>0 1 </entry>
<entry>0 1 </entry>
<entry>0 0 0 1 </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></li>
</ul><p>   The values of "IETF" and "Registration Profile Property" are incremented
by 1 before the key is formed.</p> </example>
</conbody></concept>