<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-50CA6507-18AF-58D7-8494-2FECF8FDBDF3" xml:lang="en"><title>How
to use CapCheck</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p> <codeph>CapCheck</codeph> is a tool that allows you to compare the capabilities
of binaries within your ROM log with a list of expected capabilities, called
an Expected Capability List. This is to make sure that the applications within
your ROM image have the correct access rights. </p>
<p>The Expected Capability list is a text file listing the capabilities you
expect to find in your ROM log file. This can be created manually or, as a
starting point, by using the standard output from <codeph>CapSearch</codeph> without
specifying any capabilities. To be useful, this seeded list must then be modified
appropriately to include expected capabilities only. All the capabilities
are listed in hexadecimal format. </p>
<p>All the permissible capabilities are defined in a Symbian Capability List,
which is a file called <filepath>e32capability.h</filepath>, located in <filepath>&lt;EPOCROOT&gt;\epoc32\include</filepath>. </p>
<p>To use the <codeph>CapCheck</codeph> tool, you need to define the name
and location of the ROM log file, the file listing the expected capabilities,
and the name and location of the Symbian Capability list. </p>
<p>The results are displayed in a report, in HTML format. </p>
<section><title>Command line syntax</title> <p>The command line syntax to
be used for <codeph>CapCheck</codeph> is shown below. </p> <p> <codeph>&gt;CapCheck.pl
-r &lt;rom_log_file&gt; -e           &lt;expected_capability_list&gt; -s &lt;Symbian_capability_list&gt;
[-R           &lt;HTML_report&gt;]</codeph> </p> <p>Mandatory arguments are <codeph>-r</codeph>, <codeph>-e</codeph> and <codeph>-s</codeph>. </p> <p><b>Arguments</b> </p> <p>The following arguments are used. </p> <table id="GUID-C88DC3A2-B2DD-57C8-8F39-01B8FE2CEF34">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-r &lt;rom_log_file&gt;</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The name and location of the ROM log file to be checked, in relation
to the directory where the tool is run from, for example <filepath>.\input\rom.log</filepath>.
This is mandatory. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-e &lt;expected_capability_list&gt;</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The name of the file listing the capabilities you expect to find
in the ROM. This file is a text file created by you, either manually, or by
using <codeph>CapSearch</codeph>. This flag is mandatory. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-s &lt;Symbian_capability_list&gt;</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The name of the Symbian Capability List, listing all the capabilities
available to search, and their corresponding values (<filepath>&lt;EPOCROOT&gt;\epoc32\include\e32capability.h</filepath>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-R &lt;HTML_report&gt;</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines the name of the HTML report to be generated in the working
directory. If not specified, the default name is <filepath>CapCheckReport.html</filepath>.
This is optional. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-h</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Displays help information (optional). </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p><b>Example</b> </p> <p>A full example of how to use the <codeph>CapSearch</codeph> tool
is shown below: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-5AFC93AE-DCE6-5981-984F-73968E9962E4" xml:space="preserve">&gt;CapCheck.pl -r .\input\rom.log -e MyExpectedCapabilityList.txt -s e32capability.h -R results.html</codeblock> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-48326B53-0814-57B9-A744-78AA219D3480.dita"><linktext>CapCheck
report - file format</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-3C042957-E7C7-53EC-9397-E5650D2D61AA.dita"><linktext>CapSearch
Guide</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-C244E0D1-DF89-5C86-9C4C-419900BE0DDA.dita"><linktext>CapImportCheck
Guide</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>