<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-F13C7D36-E4AB-57F1-87A1-EB83AA2258DF"><title>Controlling the Video Controller Plugin</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This tutorial describes how to control the video controller plugin. </p> <section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The purpose of this tutorial is to show you how to control the video controller plugin. </p> <p><b>Required Background</b> </p> <p>The <xref href="GUID-2DC80BA9-7AA2-5CD3-9105-1DE28CE196C1.dita">Video Client Overview</xref> introduces the video client utilities. </p> <p><b>Introduction</b> </p> <p>The video player utility is used to open, play, and obtain information from sampled video data. This functionality is implemented by the <xref href="GUID-0F1F8AC6-B99F-3274-A785-9977197AF762.dita"><apiname>CVideoPlayerUtility</apiname></xref> class. The video data can be supplied either in a file, a descriptor or a URL. </p> </section> <section><title>Using Video Controller Plugin</title> <p>The following tasks will be covered in this tutorial: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-D9F5BB2B-45B5-5B49-9FA4-349130268E56"><p><xref href="GUID-F13C7D36-E4AB-57F1-87A1-EB83AA2258DF.dita#GUID-F13C7D36-E4AB-57F1-87A1-EB83AA2258DF/GUID-D50E2379-5A60-5003-9F85-9400A4FC2B04">Get the Progress of Video Clip Loading/Rebuffering</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-494D8E38-CA28-556B-AAA3-7D285CB2E268"><p><xref href="GUID-F13C7D36-E4AB-57F1-87A1-EB83AA2258DF.dita#GUID-F13C7D36-E4AB-57F1-87A1-EB83AA2258DF/GUID-C76572AF-F3FF-56E5-A3CE-264F9557A717">Using Custom Commands</xref>  </p> </li> </ul> <p id="GUID-D50E2379-5A60-5003-9F85-9400A4FC2B04"><b>Getting the Progress of Video Clip Loading/Rebuffering</b> </p> <p>The high level steps to get the progress of video clip loading/rebuffering are shown here: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-6151E0C8-221B-54F0-9892-6965E4400149"><p>To get the progress of video clip loading/rebuffering, use the <xref href="GUID-0F1F8AC6-B99F-3274-A785-9977197AF762.dita#GUID-0F1F8AC6-B99F-3274-A785-9977197AF762/GUID-D9C2858F-EA5B-3B0D-9EC6-27E6E100A0DE"><apiname>CVideoPlayerUtility::GetVideoLoadingProgressL()</apiname></xref> function. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-D8625275-964D-5DEA-973A-ECAA4CD0E193" xml:space="preserve">TInt percentage;
percentage = iVideoPlayer-&gt;GetVideoLoadingProgressL() \\Returns the progress, as a percentage of video loading.</codeblock> </li> </ul> <p id="GUID-C76572AF-F3FF-56E5-A3CE-264F9557A717"><b>Using Custom Commands</b> </p> <p>Custom commands are used to pass the message directly to the controller plug-in instead of going through APIs such as Play(), Record(), and so on. </p> <ul><li id="GUID-2FF21CE7-6815-5CEB-8F6F-B0CD9E49CAF6"><p>To send a synchronous custom command to the controller, use the <xref href="GUID-0F1F8AC6-B99F-3274-A785-9977197AF762.dita#GUID-0F1F8AC6-B99F-3274-A785-9977197AF762/GUID-F3837140-CAAC-3EE4-834F-E91CBA864C3D"><apiname>CVideoPlayerUtility::CustomCommandSync()</apiname></xref> function. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-E29FBA55-B694-58CB-B218-35EF640AB44C"><p>To send a asynchronous custom command to the controller, use the <xref href="GUID-0F1F8AC6-B99F-3274-A785-9977197AF762.dita#GUID-0F1F8AC6-B99F-3274-A785-9977197AF762/GUID-60D7B247-66ED-33ED-8619-2DFD44A6008E"><apiname>CVideoPlayerUtility::CustomCommandAsync()</apiname></xref> function. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>See Also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-172F46C1-6066-57FA-A815-5AC23ACE159D.dita">Creating and Preparing a Video Player</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-F9896E96-1076-552D-AE54-8F9DABED867F.dita">Configuring the Video Player</xref> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-733B9695-0C7C-5637-9025-6CE3BAA1A23E.dita"> Enabling/Disabling Audio or Video Playback Separately</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-FE7DE542-3FD4-56D2-B281-C670EF1C4FEB.dita">Scaling Automatically</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-5F4510C9-5B16-593A-A225-37606800915B.dita">Controlling Video Playback</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-70B3881F-9532-5F1D-B210-99A15DB93FC2.dita">Fast Forwarding and Rewinding</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-469377FB-AAE8-5245-A8E1-469C65AFE5C5.dita">Stepping Frames</xref>  </p> </section> </conbody></concept>