<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-7A4D4E44-B029-5E4C-9E2D-1CD420BB2B56" xml:lang="en"><title>Emulator
BSP Overview</title><shortdesc>The emulator board support package (BSP) provides the variant kernel,
executables, debugging framework and device drivers for the Symbian platform
(Epoc) emulator. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-03D81C3F-4036-462F-86B0-6B6A6897B5CE"><title>Purpose</title> <p>The
emulator is a port of Symbian platform on the Win32 platform. It allows developers
to try things out in an inexpensive development environment and to test and
debug code before running it on target hardware. When attempting to implement
some new and perhaps unproven functionality developers can learn much from
running the application in the emulator. </p> <p>The emulator is used for: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-2A94B6D1-F44C-532D-A12B-040F825F4C0C"><p>testing new code ideas, </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7D9F8ADF-5531-59FC-9586-1566DD605718"><p>debugging code before
trying it on target hardware or a hardware BSP such as OMAP H4, </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-AA53B122-E40E-507D-8AAF-82D0588E8823"><p>running Symbian platform
reference implementations and test code, </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F618725D-99B5-592D-8AA2-760DA5ADFABB"><p>learning to develop
for Symbian platform — through formal Symbian platform developer training
courses. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>This document describes the composition of the Symbian platform (Epoc)
emulator in the <xref href="GUID-7A4D4E44-B029-5E4C-9E2D-1CD420BB2B56.dita#GUID-7A4D4E44-B029-5E4C-9E2D-1CD420BB2B56/GUID-82A619C7-BF2C-5211-9134-8414685413C5">Emulator
BSP Summary</xref>.</p> </section>
<section id="GUID-135581F1-7A93-4DFE-89C1-4388FDCDFBBD"><title>Required background</title> <p>There
is no formal background required for this section; except perhaps curiosity
or a need to know more about the emulator. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-D5D33AFF-583F-5E3B-B153-29D8E12EDD42"><title>Key concepts
and terms</title> <p>The following concepts and terms are used in the context
of the emulator: </p> <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Bootstrap</dt>
<dd><p>The first task of Symbian platform is to run the bootstrap application,
which performs various initialization tasks on the hardware before starting
the kernel. Since emulator does not have to intialize the hardware, its startup
application directly starts the kernel. The remainder of the boot process
is the same on the emulator as well. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>File system support</dt>
<dd><p>During run time, the emulator emulates the Symbian platform file system
onto the file system on a PC. This enables the application to use the file
system drives without interfering with the drives on the PC. Performance and
size of such drives may not be the same as it would be for the actual hardware. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Floating point behaviour </dt>
<dd><p>The emulator is implemented on the Intel x86 processors which has floating
point hardware as opposed to IEEE-754 single precision and double precision
floating point values used by Symbian platform. So the user has to be careful
in using floating-point functions where the target hardware does not have
hardware support. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Machine word alignment</dt>
<dd><p>Since ARM uses a 32-bit RISC architecture, the 32-bit quantities must
be aligned to a 32-bit machine word boundary only. In other words, the address
is a multiplier of 4. This may or may not work with an emulator. For more
details see <xref href="GUID-ADCDCB7D-2402-53CE-B563-85BF479DA6C3.dita">Machine
word alignment</xref>. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Memory constraints </dt>
<dd><p>The emulator emulates a device with a total heap size of 64MB. The
initial and maximum size for the default heap for an individual process on
the emulator (EKA2) can be set, in the same way as for a process on a native
target. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Process emulation</dt>
<dd><p>The EKA2 kernel provides a good emulation of Symbian platform processes
on the emulator with some limitations. For more details see <xref href="GUID-1940E2B6-47D8-553C-A448-D630551E86A6.dita">Process
emulation</xref> section. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Scheduling</dt>
<dd><p>The thread scheduling functionality has been faithfully emulated by
the emulator on the target hardware. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Serial ports</dt>
<dd><p>The serial ports are emulated through Windows serial ports. This is
adequate for most purposes, but may not provide the same performance as UARTs
on a real device. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Timer</dt>
<dd><p>The standard timer resolution is 1/64th second on all platforms and
also on the emulator. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>USB</dt>
<dd><p>The emulator does not provide USB client support on reference hardware. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
</dl> </section>
<section id="GUID-82A619C7-BF2C-5211-9134-8414685413C5"><title> Emulator BSP
Summary</title> <p>Emulator BSP provides the following executables, device
drivers (PDD and LDD) and utility applications: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-65C58628-BB5A-5E05-BFD5-D6857BE96337"><p> <b>Emulator kernel</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>_h4hrp_ekern.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>The
emulator specific variant of the kernel. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8A563FC4-830C-566E-B6B8-540CE153C5E4"><p> <b>Emulator Internal
RAM media driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>_h4hrp_medint.pdd</filepath>  </p> <p>The
physical device driver (PDD) for the internal RAM media for the emulator. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-75D4794E-1713-56D5-BAAF-2F09438CD704"><p> <b>Kernel Trace Tool</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>_integrator_cm1136_btracex.ldd</filepath>  </p> <p>The emulator variant kernel trace tool. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-1BEC67D4-62D9-5DFC-8FE0-98914B4A802B"><p> <b>Epoc boot library</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>_integrator_cm920_kc_exe.lib</filepath>  </p> <p>Provides the bootup for Epoc. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-1D562FED-7678-59CB-9DCF-A1C1E2A2FACA"><p> <b>Display Device Driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>display0.ldd</filepath>  </p> <p>The
logical device driver (LDD) for the emulator display. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-AAF10CBE-9B3B-5233-8040-7864074F6DA0"><p> <b>Symbian platform
Startup</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>e32strt.exe</filepath>  </p> <p>The Symbian
platform startup process for the emulator. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8040ADCD-3650-521A-8949-D805F0928DBD"><p> <b>Serial Device Driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>ecdrv.pdd</filepath>  </p> <p>The
physical driver for the emulator serial device. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F718A1FF-D151-5BED-8CB7-B83A1BAFBD3D"><p> <b>Serial Port Driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>ecomm.ldd</filepath>  </p> <p>The
logical device driver (LDD) for the emulator serial port. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B0BCCCDD-1950-52F3-850E-CB3550B0CF1F"><p> <b>Console</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>econsnogui.dll</filepath>  </p> <p>The
emulator console. Provides an <xref href="GUID-1B13A3E3-678A-3430-9A42-3749BF77A633.dita"><apiname>RConsole</apiname></xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-64D8F18F-C33F-5326-9D21-DCB16F59525B"><p> <b>Variant Specific
Debugging Customizations</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>ecust.dll</filepath>  </p> <p>Debugging
customizations for the emulator. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-636EA738-D2FB-535D-82AF-8D3B0CAE30D0"><p> <b>Keyboard Data</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>ekdata.dll</filepath>  </p> <p>Provides
keyboard mapping behaviours. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-45FF5314-CB4E-5797-9BB2-578CF8C0E036"><p> <b>MMC / SD Card Configuration</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>epbusv.dll</filepath>  </p> <p>Provides
the MMC / SD Card configuration for the emulator. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-938E7A40-FF19-5E62-9649-7A0369ED6E94"><p> <b>Sound Device Driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>esdrv.pdd</filepath>  </p> <p>The
physical device driver (PDD) for the sound device. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3BEDC85E-650F-5B57-8508-66BF099D9377"><p> <b>Ethernet Device
Driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>ethernet.pdd</filepath>  </p> <p>The physical
device driver (PDD) for the Ethernet under the windows emulator. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-486F392A-8A27-51A7-938B-3472E7464B14"><p> <b>Hardware Abstraction</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>hal.dll</filepath>  </p> <p>The
hardware abstraction that is used to configure hardware settings for the emulator.
Specifically the CPU speed and the display settings are configured with the
emulator HAL. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7EB71A72-01B8-56F7-90CF-94409FA3A2B5"><p> <b>Flash Media Driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>medlfs.pdd</filepath>  </p> <p>The
physical device driver (PDD) for the Flash Media Driver. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0B8E31B3-700B-5B63-8BFA-36A59CD9F6F2"><p> <b>NAND Media Driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>mednand.pdd</filepath>  </p> <p>The
physical device driver (PDD) for the NAND Media Driver. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-02B06847-062A-5F47-8E19-1337CE8FE2EF"><p> <b>Shared Chunk Sound
Driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>soundsc.pdd</filepath>  </p> <p>Emulator playback
functions for the shared chunk sound driver PDD. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3C5965C2-6132-5073-B3B0-BC2136B4717B"><p> <b>File Server</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>win_drive.fxt</filepath>  </p> <p>The
test File Server extension for the emulator. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-85A419B0-665A-56C5-B30E-456F0D5A8B24"><p> <b>Windows GUI Settings</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>winsgui.dll</filepath>  </p> <p>The
standard emulator GUI and keyboard settings. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-9540A82E-F83D-55F5-B441-868CF77468E9.dita#GUID-9540A82E-F83D-55F5-B441-868CF77468E9/GUID-CFED15B1-E768-534E-9043-7AADE45EE9AF">
<linktext>Media Drivers</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-0437DB4C-FC4E-51DC-BB4C-95C0B26834F5.dita"><linktext>Device Driver
Guide</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>