<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-92C032CF-9291-5970-9152-EFF47C9AE3B9"><title>Locale Settings Overview</title><shortdesc>Provides a number of APIs for configuring standard location specific data. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><section id="GUID-4E159335-D7FB-421F-A722-6C7A1BF7E12A"><title>Purpose</title> <p>Provides access to locale-sensitive information, such as date and time formatting, currency symbols and units of measurement. </p> </section> <section id="GUID-761D44D9-ACD6-4F9F-9D56-1D81226DC63A"><title>Architectural relationships</title> <p>All applications should use this API for getting the format for any locale-sensitive information. </p> <p>The API also provides functions to configure the locale settings. These are normally only used by system applications. </p> </section> <section id="GUID-A7D98494-F9D3-4D79-98BA-1DD98B69F64B"><title>Description</title> <p>The API has seven key concepts: locale, calendar settings, country code, currency format, date and time formatting, numeric values, and time zone information. </p> <p><b>Locale</b> </p> <p>A single class provides a central point for getting and setting locale information. Most other classes and types in this API are used as parameters in its functions. It is provided by <xref href="GUID-53299759-C2DD-3ABC-A055-9AFE7C5081C6.dita"><apiname>TLocale</apiname></xref>. </p> <p><b>Calendar settings</b> </p> <p>The first day of the week and working days are recorded for the locale. Days are enumerated in <xref href="GUID-BF1B2D81-9EC0-3345-9EFF-27341F1E5CEF.dita"><apiname>TDay</apiname></xref>; day names are stored in <xref href="GUID-9F97BDB2-F684-33D1-9B4A-C46425833F59.dita"><apiname>TDayName</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-9BF9626A-0535-3E70-BFD8-B12505BD934F.dita"><apiname>TDayNameAbb</apiname></xref>. </p> <p><b>Country code</b> </p> <p>The country code (international dialling prefix) is stored in the locale as an integer. </p> <p><b>Currency format</b> </p> <p>The currency symbol is stored in <xref href="GUID-0AD9F258-392E-3F4E-8986-23D30920E77F.dita"><apiname>TCurrencySymbol</apiname></xref>. Aspects of formatting are handled through <xref href="GUID-53299759-C2DD-3ABC-A055-9AFE7C5081C6.dita"><apiname>TLocale</apiname></xref>. </p> <p><b>Date and time formatting</b> </p> <p>Date and time formatting, for instance, separator characters, ordering of date components, and positioning of am/pm text, are set in the locale. Options are set through classes <xref href="GUID-E22ADC67-CEBC-3A6C-A507-EDB8C706476F.dita"><apiname>TDateSuffix</apiname></xref>, <codeph>TAmPmName</codeph>, and enumerations, <xref href="GUID-DC75BA9C-FE1C-36D8-AC84-31EBC7508F1E.dita"><apiname>TClockFormat</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-FFC6932E-2FFF-315E-975B-9E9A7A8CBF2F.dita"><apiname>TDateFormat</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-7F61AE3B-579D-32E3-8134-81BFAAD4807E.dita"><apiname>TTimeFormat</apiname></xref>. </p> <p><b>Numeric values</b> </p> <p>The locale characters for the thousands separator, and decimal point separator are stored. </p> <p><b>Time zone information</b> </p> <p>A locale’s time zone is defined as an offset from UTC, with daylight saving options handled by <xref href="GUID-E13F49BA-BB0F-3ECA-A1F6-158E5C80F799.dita"><apiname>TDaylightSavingZone</apiname></xref>. </p> <p><b>Units of distance</b> </p> <p>Locale options for imperial or metric units are handled by the enumeration <xref href="GUID-4B94449F-05D7-376E-94EF-D11AB200E543.dita"><apiname>TUnitsFormat</apiname></xref>. </p> </section> <section id="GUID-49878499-3825-4EDE-B15B-4EADDAFD512F"><title>See also</title> <p> <xref href="GUID-CD506806-FC59-547A-B5CD-03314DF847F7.dita">Date And Time Handling Overview</xref> </p> </section> </conbody></concept>