<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-743D3117-095B-58D5-947D-A8713475C9A5" xml:lang="en"><title>Tuning
IP Platform</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This topic gives information about the Tuning IP Platform. </p>
<section><title>Purpose</title><p>The purpose of this tutorial is to set the
desired IP platform. </p> </section>
<section><title>Required Background</title>In order to get the IP Platform
to set you need to do the signal scanning.</section>
<section><title>Introduction</title>The concept of tuning in DVB-H translates
to set an IP platform. </section>
<section><title>Using Tuning IP Platform Tutorial </title> <p>The following
tasks will be covered in this tutorial: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-93BDD0CB-53EC-5927-96C5-3FB79856614C"><p><xref href="GUID-5F7E8720-742D-4AE3-A2D7-A383557CF2FA.dita">Setting
IP Platform</xref> </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>Example</title><codeblock id="GUID-FE23892A-198C-57D8-9ACA-CC013583A83B" xml:space="preserve">

//Context: The following takes place in some method of an active object
//(e.g. CExampleClient : public CActive). Its member iReceiver is 
//an RDvbhReceiver that has previously been initialized. Its member
//iPlatform is a TDvbhPlatform.

GetPlatformToSetFromEndUserL(iPlatform); //Get the platform to set (This is outside scope)
User::LeaveIfError(iReceiver.SetPlatform(iPlatform, iStatus));

//When the SetPlatform() operation completes, CExampleClient::RunL()
//will be called. If all went well, the receiver will now be in the Ready
//state, ready to filter IP data streams from the broadcast to which it is
//now tuned.

void CExampleClient::RunL()
    {
    //SetPlatform() operation has completed. Check iStatus for completion
      //code (KErrNone, KErrCancelled, KErrNotReady, etc.) and act
      //accordingly.
    ...
    }

</codeblock></section>
<section><title>Cancelling a Platform</title> <p>If you want to abort the
platform setting, then call <xref href="GUID-617CD367-CF68-3932-8E77-669820A7B9AF.dita#GUID-617CD367-CF68-3932-8E77-669820A7B9AF/GUID-01C62701-0F57-3129-9377-ECBA5A9C54F0"><apiname>RDvbhReceiver::CancelSetPlatform()</apiname></xref>.
This causes the active object to complete with reason <codeph>KErrCancelled</codeph>.
If <xref href="GUID-617CD367-CF68-3932-8E77-669820A7B9AF.dita#GUID-617CD367-CF68-3932-8E77-669820A7B9AF/GUID-01C62701-0F57-3129-9377-ECBA5A9C54F0"><apiname>RDvbhReceiver::CancelSetPlatform()</apiname></xref> is called when no
platform is set, then nothing happens. </p> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-3C9BE2FF-8D5C-51D0-8BC1-BED7BC1288BA.dita"><linktext>Turn On Broadcast
Receiver </linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-2C8BE998-BCCE-5A06-AFC1-4B611D9233AB.dita"><linktext>Turn Off
Broadcast Receiver </linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-0297CAF5-4EB7-5E84-8A8C-8758D6F3B75F.dita"><linktext>Setting Data
Reception</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-567585CC-26EC-553D-99D5-D3C178C455F6.dita"><linktext>DVB-H Signal
Scanning</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-F5FE22F3-B7C4-50B3-9B36-5CB8BC1BA18A.dita"><linktext>Receiving
Broadcast Data</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>