<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-ED20B02A-C146-5E28-A102-D3AE11D9015F" xml:lang="en"><title>Building
and Running the MiniGUI Tutorial</title><shortdesc>This topic describes how to build a MiniGUI ROM image and how to
run the MiniGUI in the emulator. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p> <b>Variant</b>: ScreenPlay. <b>Target audience</b>: Device creators. </p>
<p>This topic builds on the introduction in the <xref href="GUID-E09F74E2-B5A2-51F8-BD9E-882BE2661D5C.dita">MiniGUI
Environment Overview</xref> and the ROM Tools Guide. </p>
<section><title>Building a MiniGUI ROM image</title> <ol id="GUID-AAD227D8-8D67-5951-B359-715D4A0AD33B">
<li id="GUID-9921FB78-9201-5337-95D4-CB62BEFA4C32"><p>Use a text editor to
edit the Window Server configuration file, <filepath>\epoc32\data\z\wsini_minigui.ini</filepath>. </p> <p>Note:
This file must be created or saved in Unicode instead of ASCII. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-43452758-28A2-5095-88FB-07C2964F49CB"><p>Add the following lines
to the <filepath>wsini_minigui.ini</filepath> file to start ESHELL as the
system shell in the specified screen mode. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-21B815C5-1BE1-5905-87C6-BA14DA659C8B" xml:space="preserve">STARTUP ESHELL
SCREENMODE COLOR16MAP</codeblock> <p>Refer to <xref href="GUID-1D529BDC-6665-58E2-AB3F-7023D8A84F69.dita">The
wsini.ini File Reference</xref> for more information about the parameters. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-CC5687DF-9863-51C6-B348-D10C10868DAD"><p>Make sure that the ROM
image description file, <filepath>minigui.oby</filepath>, exists under <filepath>\epoc32\rom\include\</filepath>.
This OBY file is the input file to the <filepath>BUILDROM</filepath> tool. </p> <p>This
file contains a statement that refers to the <filepath>wsini_minigui.ini</filepath> file. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-82D32D6F-A2A2-56A0-8AF9-6C021CC3E321" xml:space="preserve">data=DATAZ_\wsini_minigui.ini    system\data\wsini.ini</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-C3015F0E-CDE7-5940-9088-9DBE34468277"><p>Build a MiniGUI ROM
image from a command prompt. </p> <p>The following commands build a ROM image
for H4: </p> <p>&gt; cd d:\Symbian\epoc32\rom </p> <p>&gt; buildrom -nosymbols h4hrp
minigui </p> <p>The following commands build a ROM image for H6: </p> <p>&gt;
cd d:\Symbian\epoc32\rom </p> <p>&gt; buildrom -nosymbols 34xx_sdp minigui </p> <p>Where <filepath>minigui</filepath> stands
for the <filepath>minigui.oby</filepath> file. The <codeph>-nosymbols</codeph> directive
means do not generate the symbol file which contains the ROM building information
for debugging purpose. </p> </li>
</ol> <p> <b>Result</b>: The MiniGUI ROM image is generated in the current
directory: <filepath>d:\Symbian\epoc32\rom</filepath>. </p> </section>
<section><title>Running the MiniGUI in the emulator</title> <ol id="GUID-DC6EB5D4-FDE5-5464-B2CE-0D272F4AAD61">
<li id="GUID-B6913759-85BE-5480-B3A2-F0D52D7E40B7"><p>Make sure that ScreenPlay
is enabled and add the following line to the <filepath>\epoc32\data\epoc.ini</filepath> file: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-EE4BD889-EB25-5259-9183-7F96BF419794" xml:space="preserve">minigui</codeblock> <p>For
more information about enabling ScreenPlay, refer to <xref href="GUID-6D8A1FC7-095B-587E-8274-23C132978C53.dita">Enabling
the Graphics Architecture Variants</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B866EB6F-7817-55F1-9631-ED0B7122B048"><p>Add the following lines
to the <filepath>\epoc32\release\winscw\udeb\z\system\data\wsini.ini</filepath> to
start ESHELL as the system shell in the specified screen mode: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-7ECA751A-5C25-5774-ACBD-DA5D861C125D" xml:space="preserve">startup eshell
screenmode color16map</codeblock> </li>
</ol> <p>Launch the emulator to verify that MiniGUI configuration works. It
boots into the black and white ESHELL. </p> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-6D8A1FC7-095B-587E-8274-23C132978C53.dita"><linktext>Enabling
the Graphics Architecture  Variants</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-85E1E45B-DD05-5B7D-84E7-9911E0A3E3CC.dita"><linktext>The wsini.ini
File</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>