<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-9F90A2F0-9C76-4871-A766-D1AE0FC42C08" xml:lang="en"><title>Defining
localizable registration information</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>You need to register your applications in order to make them visible
to the application menu and to provide other information to the underlying
system. To register, you need to provide a <xref href="GUID-BF1AAA0D-DF2F-4E1D-A0D2-F419BD32F97A.dita">registration
resource file</xref> that contains the non-localized information for your
application. You also need to provide the localizable registration information.
The registration resource file is compiled during the build process and included
in the <xref href="GUID-7F1B2577-2FEF-45F9-B32F-745DFE0F0D95.dita"><parmname>pkg</parmname></xref> file
used to make the  file used to make the <parmname>sis</parmname> <xref href="GUID-61EE2BE0-7B86-42CD-A03F-857DD8FAC246.dita">installation
file</xref>.</p>
<p>Localizable registration information is defined in a <parmname>LOCALISABLE_APP_INFO</parmname> resource
statement, which may be in a separate file or in the resource file for the
GUI resources. For a discussion of the available options for where you can
place this resource statement, see <xref href="jar:GUID-35228542-8C95-4849-A73F-2B4F082F0C44.jar!/sdk/doc_source/ToolsAndUtilities94/DevTools/RegFiles/Tool_Guide_LocalisableIconFile.html#Tool_Guide_LocalisableIconFile" format="application/java-archive">Localisable
icon/caption definition files</xref>.</p>
<p>To define the localizable registration information:</p>
<ol>
<li id="GUID-A5E13549-C926-45ED-A081-165742AAF157"><p>Determine
the requirements of your application, including deciding on whether the resource
statement should be in its own file or part of the GUI resource file.</p>
</li>
<li id="GUID-B8106EC5-BDA0-4F59-B943-9B63895347EE"><p>Create a <parmname>LOCALISABLE_APP_INFO</parmname> resource.
The data structure is declared in the <parmname>appinfo.rh</parmname> file
in the <parmname>./epoc32/include</parmname> folder, as is the <parmname>CAPTION_AND_ICON_INFO</parmname> structure
used in the resource. The syntax is as follows:</p>
<itemgroup>
<codeblock id="GUID-4A202ECA-380D-4FE2-AE41-3D1035F3FF7A" xml:space="preserve">RESOURCE  LOCALISABLE_APP_INFO r_name36
	{
	short_caption = "";
	CAPTION_AND_ICON_INFO
        {
        caption = "";
        number_of_icons =0;
	   	icon_file = "";
	    };
	view_list[]; // VIEW_DATA
	group_name(KAppMaxGroupName) = "";
	}</codeblock>
<p>where</p>
<ul>
<li><p><parmname>r_name36</parmname> is the resource name that uniquely
identifies this RESOURCE statement in the application, and is used in the <xref href="GUID-BF1AAA0D-DF2F-4E1D-A0D2-F419BD32F97A.dita">registration resource file</xref></p>
</li>
<li><p><parmname>short_caption</parmname> indicates a shortened
version of the caption used by some UIs when screen space is limited</p>
</li>
<li><p><parmname>caption</parmname> indicates the caption used for
the application on the grid and list menu.</p></li>
<li><p><parmname>number_of_icons</parmname> indicates the number
of icons used for the application in the menu</p></li>
<li><p><parmname>icon_file</parmname> indicates the name of the
file that contains the icon, including the path but not the drive name</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>For information on the other possible values, see <xref href="jar:GUID-35228542-8C95-4849-A73F-2B4F082F0C44.jar!/sdk/doc_source/ToolsAndUtilities94/DevTools/RegFiles/Tool_Guide_LocalisableIconFile.html#Tool_Guide_LocalisableIconFile" format="application/java-archive">Localisable
icon/caption definition files</xref>.</p>
</itemgroup>
</li>
<li id="GUID-1F9CBCC9-B366-43E8-9ADB-E4AB6A255181"><p>Add the resource
name of this resource to the <parmname>localisable_resource_id</parmname> in
the registration resource file.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>For a commented example, see <xref href="GUID-6AD1DA34-EA3D-4EC9-A667-390507B4D6CB.dita">helloworldbasic.rss</xref>.</p>
</conbody></concept>