<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-33995A5A-AF4F-49AC-8AD9-BBE9E3589276" xml:lang="en"><title>OMA
DRM</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p><xref href="http://www.openmobilealliance.org/" scope="external">Open Mobile
Alliance</xref> (OMA) DRM is a mechanism used for protecting distributed content.
Using DRM, the content can be accessed on authenticated devices depending
on the usage rights set by the content owner. OMA DRM addresses the various
technical aspects of this system by providing appropriate specifications for
content formats, protocols, and a rights expression language.</p>
<p>Application developers are directly affected by the manner in which content
is distributed, such as whether content can be freely copied between devices
or not. The introduction of OMA DRM technology changes the way content is
distributed and consumed. Understanding and using the OMA DRM standard enables
your applications to gain access to high-quality branded content.</p>
<p>Because OMA DRM is an industry-wide standard, no other DRM solution can
provide access to as many mobile users. OMA DRM contains a client component,
providing a mechanism to control not only piracy via the mobile network but
also via local connections, such as Bluetooth, infrared, and MultiMediaCard
(MMC) memory cards. OMA continues to develop DRM standards as a joint effort
among its members.</p>
<p>The following OMA DRM versions are supported:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-60F25F66-8CC5-46BF-9274-BDE8F9A10B74.dita">OMA
DRM v1.0</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-249E8EE2-5334-4CA2-93AB-4010E6404D11.dita">OMA
DRM v2.0</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-09A4172E-DB54-4ADF-A718-8100154A6031.dita">OMA
DRM v2.1</xref> (some
features)</p></li>
</ul>
<p>OMA DRM v2.0 and v2.1 offer improved protection and support features, but
due to higher licensing fee it is not as widely used as v1.0.</p>
<p><xref href="http://www.forum.nokia.com/info/sw.nokia.com/id/f156b8e9-1dcd-4e5b-8e75-6e6ceded398e/NMIT_41.zip.html" scope="external">Nokia Mobile Internet Toolkit</xref> is an example of a tool
that can be used to create mobile content with OMA DRM protection.</p>
<p>For more information on OMA DRM, see:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><xref href="http://www.openmobilealliance.org/Technical/release_program/drm_v1_0.aspx" scope="external">OMA DRM v1.0 specification</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="http://www.openmobilealliance.org/Technical/release_program/drm_v2_0.aspx" scope="external">OMA DRM v2.0 specification</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="http://www.openmobilealliance.org/Technical/release_program/drm_v2_1.aspx" scope="external">OMA DRM v2.1 specification</xref></p></li>
</ul>
<section id="GUID-CA675370-FB7E-40F7-A2E7-C11B58A412AB"><title>Differences
between OMA DRM v1.0 and v2.0</title><p>The following table summarizes the
differences between OMA DRM v1.0 and v2.0.</p><table id="GUID-DE3A73AA-236F-4A13-ADA5-27BE962CFABF">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.00*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="0.99*"/><colspec colname="col3" colwidth="1.01*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry><p>Feature</p></entry>
<entry><p>OMA DRM v1.0</p></entry>
<entry><p>OMA DRM v2.0</p></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Security level during content transfer</p></entry>
<entry><p>Content is delivered in unprotected format and encrypted in the
device.</p></entry>
<entry><p>Content is delivered in encrypted <xref href="GUID-1DF3E313-4FBE-495B-8DC7-CF7024C9B929.dita">DRM
content format </xref> (DCF).</p><p>Use the <xref format="html" href="specs/guides/OMA_DRM_CAF_Agent_API_Specification/OMA_DRM_CAF_Agent_API_Specification.html" scope="peer">DRM CAF Agent API</xref> methods to encrypt content.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Receiving <xref href="GUID-6E09A5CE-F51A-4FFB-A578-70D09C38AAFA.dita">rights
objects</xref></p></entry>
<entry><p>Using unconfirmed wireless application protocol (WAP) push.</p></entry>
<entry><p>Using the <xref href="GUID-DBB9B5EA-6A15-42A0-9511-96756BAC382F.dita">rights
object  acquisition protocol</xref> (ROAP).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Constraints </p></entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p>Count</p></li>
<li><p>DateTime</p></li>
<li><p>Interval</p></li>
</ul></entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p>OMA DRM v1.0 constraints</p></li>
<li><p>Timed-count</p></li>
<li><p>Accumulated</p></li>
<li><p>Individual</p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section id="GUID-78C78E28-4F2F-4812-9724-6F8A7F7871E0"><title>Determining
the DRM version</title><p>Use the <xref format="html" href="specs/guides/OMA_DRM_CAF_Agent_API_Specification/OMA_DRM_CAF_Agent_API_Specification.html" scope="peer">DRM CAF Agent API</xref> methods to determine the DRM version
of a file.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>