<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-24414E32-94DC-5870-847B-A797C495F756" xml:lang="en"><title>SMS
Settings</title><shortdesc>The global settings that are applied to SMS MTM are known as the
SMS service settings. Each SMS message entry has its own individual group
of settings known as SMS message settings. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section><title> SMS service settings</title> <p>An SMS service entry contains
the following two types of settings that are handled through member functions
of <xref href="GUID-A9FE5C23-4F39-345E-873B-682D9807BAA0.dita"><apiname>CSmsSettings</apiname></xref>: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-6C6423F8-22E6-582A-8EAD-FDC64CB07A61"><p>General settings for
sending and retrieving SMS messages. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C6E0E838-E449-59E2-9BFF-C11506FD594C"><p>Default settings applied
to new outgoing messages. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>Clients must use the set of <xref href="GUID-A9FE5C23-4F39-345E-873B-682D9807BAA0.dita"><apiname>CSmsSettings</apiname></xref> member
functions. SMS settings can hold a configuration for one or more SMS service
centres. The SMS service centre details are encapsulated in <xref href="GUID-9BD25A7F-4A9E-3469-BA7F-F016E2ED8BFC.dita"><apiname>CSmsServiceCenter</apiname></xref> objects,
and the functions access these objects. An SMS service is stored as a message
entry with the characteristics that are be set by the MTM for an SMS service. </p> <p>Settings
such as reply options, alert on delivery, language indicator and so on are
set on a new message from the defaults for message settings specified in the
SMS service. </p> <table id="GUID-78EE4442-6C3E-5988-97A9-4B828A81761B">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Setting</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Add or remove service centre to the list of service centres </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The SMS service settings maintain a list of service centres. The
default service centre used to send SMS messages to be set from this list. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Set default service centre </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The set the default service centre to which SMS messages are sent
is from the list of service centres. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Delivery scheduling </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The SMS plug-in supports sending an SMS message at a scheduled time,
upon request or when other SMS messages are being sent. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Quoted reply </p> </entry>
<entry><p>A reply message to a received SMS message may contain the body of
the original message. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Status report handling </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Received status reports may be stored as an invisible or visible
message in the global inbox or they may be discarded altogether. Along with
each of these storage options status reports may be optionally matched to
the message that they refer to. The message is updated to reflect the delivery
status. The SMS plug-in may also be configured to not receive the status reports
at all from the SMS Stack. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Special message handling </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Received special messages may be stored as an invisible or visible
message in the global inbox, or they may be discarded altogether. The SMS
plug-in may also be configured to not receive these messages at all from the
SMS Stack. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Store service centre information in the Comms database. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This option allows the default service centre and the validity period
to be stored in the Comms database when the SMS service settings are stored
in the Message Store. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Store bearer information in the Comms database. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This option allows the current bearer information to be stored in
the Comms database when the SMS service settings are stored in the Message
Store. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Bearer setting </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The bearer setting allows the selection of the underlying data layer.
A packet or circuit switch data layer may be either mandated or preferred. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Class 2 folder </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The location of the class 2 folder is configurable. It may set to
be the global inbox. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
<section><title> SMS message settings</title> <p>Each SMS message has a Message
Store index entry that can be accessed through <xref href="GUID-5A23B804-2C06-3407-9D48-1BFB212D699F.dita"><apiname>TMsvEntry</apiname></xref>.
The index entry allows an application quick access to important properties
of a message. See <xref href="GUID-5A23B804-2C06-3407-9D48-1BFB212D699F.dita"><apiname>TMsvEntry</apiname></xref> for detailed information on
the functions and member variables of that can be set by the SMS MTM. </p> <table id="GUID-68A80135-FBB9-518A-AA71-C546180F7F16">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Setting</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Validity period </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The message validity period indicates how long a sent message may
remain in the service centre pending deliver to the recipient. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Duplicate handling </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Duplicate messages that are received may be rejected. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Delivery report </p> </entry>
<entry><p>A delivery report may be requested when sending a message. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Reply path </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies if SMS messages must be sent with the reply path set.
The reply path is the service centre to which replies to the sent SMS message
can be sent to. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Message conversion </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Defines the conversion set which the message must be encoded as
when sent over the air. The conversion sets are not defined by the SMS plug-in. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Concatenation </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This setting indicates whether the message can be concatenated into
more than one SMS PDU. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Character set </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The character set of the SMS message can be configured. </p> <p>The
supported char sets are not defined by the SMS plug-in. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-A2408186-1927-45F4-8972-C9273E5135CF.dita"><linktext>SMS     
           Tutorial</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-33C7EEEB-88B8-5587-916D-2C5D122F6010.dita"><linktext>SMS     
           MTM</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>