<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-26435FE1-D912-4AA2-96EE-82B35DA231E6" xml:lang="en"><title>Typical
functions of the standard keys</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><table id="GUID-9A18E5F5-2E84-4220-9F8A-50E7007789B5"><title>Standard
key functions</title>
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keys</entry>
<entry>Functions</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Arrow up / Arrow down</p></entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p>Moves the focus one item up/down in lists and grids. </p></li>
<li><p>Moves the cursor one line up/down in editors. </p></li>
<li><p>Scrolls the view up/down in viewers. </p></li>
<li><p>Adjusts the sound volume during calls and sound playback when the device
does not have dedicated volume keys.</p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Arrow left / Arrow right</p></entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p>Moves the focus one item to the left/right in grids. </p></li>
<li><p>Moves the cursor one character to the left/right in editors. </p></li>
<li><p>Moves to the previous/next view in tabbed views. </p></li>
<li><p>Moves to the previous/next document or view in certain document viewers. </p></li>
<li><p>Changes the value in a pop-up field immediately in forms.</p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Selection key</p></entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p>Opens the focused item (for example, a document or folder) in selection
lists and grids. </p></li>
<li><p>Selects an option in menus and lists. </p></li>
<li><p>Opens the context sensitive Options menu when there is no item to open
and no option to select (see <xref href="GUID-0822B030-E776-4BD5-B9C9-23D3821BCE1F.dita">Selection
list</xref>).</p></li>
</ul><p>The Selection key must not directly activate any such function the
user would not expect in the given situation; the Selection key is strictly
a Get-in or Accept key. Therefore, the context sensitive <b>Options</b> menu
will be offered in states where no selectable items exist.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Left softkey</p></entry>
<entry><p>Typically labeled <b>Options</b>. Opens the <b>Options</b> menu.</p><p>Other
labels and functions: </p><ul>
<li><p><b>Select</b>. Used in menu lists and grids where further options are
not available. Selects the focused item; same as the Selection key function. </p></li>
<li><p><b>OK</b>, <b>Yes</b> and other positive replies; used in confirmation
queries. </p></li>
<li><p>In the Idle state, a shortcut to a specific application. Configurable
by the user, labeled according to the application.</p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Right softkey</p></entry>
<entry><p>Typically labeled <b>Back</b>. Returns to the previous state.</p><p>Other
labels and functions: </p><ul>
<li><p><b>Exit</b> in applications' main states. </p></li>
<li><p><b>Cancel</b>. Interrupts a procedure and returns to the previous state;
used in queries and other temporary states. </p></li>
<li><p><b>No</b> and other negative replies; used in confirmation queries. </p></li>
<li><p>In the Idle state, a shortcut to a specific application. Configurable
by the user, labeled according to the application.</p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Call creation</p></entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p>Answers the incoming call when the phone rings. </p></li>
<li><p>Creates an outgoing call when in <b>Phonebook</b> and other states
where the focus is in a field containing a phone number or a name associated
with a phone number. </p></li>
<li><p>Sends a message; used when in a message editor and the <b>To</b> field
contains a valid address. </p></li>
<li><p>Functions also as a shortcut for sending files.</p></li>
</ul><p>During calls: </p><ul>
<li><p>Puts an active call on hold; activates a held call; swaps active and
held calls, if both exist. </p></li>
<li><p>Answers a waiting call (if a call is in progress). </p></li>
</ul><p>In the Idle state: </p><ul>
<li><p>Brings up the <b>Last Dialled Calls</b> list for redialing.</p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Call termination</p></entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p>Rejects an incoming call. </p></li>
<li><p>Ends an active call.</p></li>
<li><p>When there is only a held call, ends the held call. </p></li>
<li><p>When there is both an active call and a held call, ends the active
call and activates the held call. </p></li>
<li><p>When there are no calls and an application is active, returns to the
Idle state. The application is terminated, except for applications that play
something in the background such as music players or radio. Any unsaved data
is automatically saved (also in case the user has pressed Exit in the Options
menu).</p></li>
</ul><p>And in devices that have a dedicated power key: </p><ul>
<li><p>A long press closes down all connections (for example GPRS, data call);
however, this has no effect on IR and Bluetooth </p></li>
</ul><p>And in devices without a dedicated Power key: </p><ul>
<li><p>When control is in the Idle state (that is, there are no active calls),
a short press opens the list of Profiles (the <b>Power key</b> menu) and a
long press turns the device OFF regardless of whether there are active packet
data connections in the background or not. </p></li>
<li><p>When in the Idle state without any packet data connections active in
the background, a short press opens the <b>Power key</b> menu and a long press
turns the device off. </p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Home / Menu key</p></entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p>Opens the <xref href="GUID-86AADA3E-B77C-45CC-B523-785B75BAA5AA.dita">Menu</xref>,
allowing application launching and swapping. </p></li>
<li><p>When within the <uicontrol>Menu</uicontrol>, returns to the home screen.
Note that there can be device-specific configurations for Home / Menu key
functionality. </p></li>
<li><p>A long press of the Home / Menu key opens the task swapping window,
allowing switching between running applications.</p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Numeric keypad (0-9, *, #)</p></entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p>Numeric and alphanumeric character entry. </p></li>
<li><p>Application-specific shortcuts and other functions.</p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Clear</p></entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p>Clears characters when editing text or numbers. </p></li>
<li><p>Deletes documents or other entities in lists and viewers (these functions
always require confirmation from the user).</p></li>
</ul><p>The Clear key is not used for back stepping or exiting; it is only
used for deletion.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Edit (optional)</p></entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p>Opens the <b>Editing</b> menu in editors; the menu contains functions
for input mode changing and other editing functions. See <xref href="GUID-2E0F793F-3D80-4303-AF48-C7341F417DC9.dita">Editing
menu </xref>for the contents of the menu.</p></li>
<li><p>In editors, can be used together with the Arrow keys to select (highlight)
text, which then enables the Copy and Cut functions. </p></li>
<li><p>In markable lists, using the Edit key together with the arrow keys
allows the user to mark several items in the list, then a function can be
executed on all the marked items as one operation.</p></li>
</ul><p>The Edit key is handled in a special way; the primary action (the <b>Editing</b> menu)
is opened from the key release event, not the key down event as usually. This
is to enable the <b>Mark/Select</b> function where the key is being held down
as a modifier key (see <xref href="GUID-2E0F793F-3D80-4303-AF48-C7341F417DC9.dita">Editing
menu </xref> and <xref href="GUID-E6803961-14A0-44BD-A94E-5D8A38EA907F.dita">Lists
and grids</xref> for more detailed descriptions of the <b>Select</b> and <b>Mark</b> functions.)</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Volume keys</p></entry>
<entry><p>Adjust the sound volume during calls and sound playback.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody></concept>