<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-61E219A3-7D9D-5AAA-B6B3-61F0749E12B3"><title>MIDI Client Overview </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This document provides an overview of the MIDI Client. </p> <section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The MIDI Client provides an interface for manipulating MIDI data. </p> <p><b>MIDI Client Library Details</b> </p> <p>The DLL that provides the functionality and the library to which your code must link is identified below. </p> <table id="GUID-3EF13B1F-3685-559C-9124-FA5BCA44E8BD"><tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><thead><row><entry>DLL</entry> <entry>LIB</entry> <entry>Short Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <b> midiclient.dll</b>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <b> midiclient.lib</b>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>These files are used for implementing the MIDI Client. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> <section><title>Architectural Relationship</title> <p>The MIDI Client interacts with the lower levels of Multimedia Framework (known as the controller framework). The controller framework is in turn responsible for managing the interface to audio hardware. </p> </section> <section><title>Description</title> <p>The MIDI Client provides an interface to open, play and obtain information in MIDI format. The MIDI data can supplied either in a file, a descriptor or a URL. </p> </section> <section><title>Key MIDI Client Classes</title> <p>The functionality provided by the MIDI Client is contained within the following class: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-E47FBA3F-75C5-594E-8DA0-84AA7E906655"><p> <xref href="GUID-533353BF-BBDC-3841-A46F-12B5FD67E186.dita"><apiname>CMidiClientUtility</apiname></xref>. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>Using the MIDI Client</title> <p>Clients can use the MIDI Client to: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-DFD95031-4994-5A0C-9CC1-5ECC8C472B3A"><p>Open a MIDI source. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-2348A2A6-31F2-580A-A3F6-3D87536C492C"><p>Play MIDI data. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-C32CB5A4-ACBA-59CA-9DD5-E45ABF2FF849"><p>Control the MIDI player. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-614EF024-1AA0-5110-A9C2-54796F1FB8DD"><p>Retrieve information from the MIDI player. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-F48D61ED-5424-549F-8BDE-2FF966B91A3E"><p>Monitor the state of MIDI data. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>See Also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-A9AAADAF-12B1-5D0C-B8B3-6E7FDB9823DC.dita"> MIDI Playing</xref>  </p> </section> </conbody></concept>