<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-21DAC50D-7737-42B6-BBDA-E12E8779741B" xml:lang="en"><title>Feedback</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-612FFD40-0116-4D25-B16D-9B65144A82C4"> <p>Visual feedback
is the most important sensory feedback when entering characters on screen.
Visual feedback can be, for example, button effects, color changes, status
indicators, touch/release state changes, or clearing the screen when transitioning
to next screen.</p> <p>With audio feedback, lower clicks and tones are preferred
over loud beeps, though most people turn audio feedback off anyway.</p> <p>Vibration
is used as tactile feedback for touch screen interaction or input. Tactile
feedback gives the user an immediate response that the touch event has been
registered, and can even be given in noisy environments.</p> <p>With the Symbian
touch UI, tactile feedback is used in the following situations:</p><ul>
<li><p><b>Sensors: </b>a double tap on the device by hand provides tactile
feedback to the user in case of a successful interaction</p></li>
<li><p><b>Touch interaction (touch screen):</b> to indicate to the user that
an interaction event has been successful. For example, when the user presses
a button on the touch screen</p></li>
</ul><p><note>Tactile feedback is included in those common UI components where
it has been seen as beneficial. When creating new applications and designing
custom components, tactile feedback is to be included where found useful.
For example, in any button type of UI component, the tactile feedback is naturally
beneficial.</note></p><p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-581A8E4B-12BE-41C0-A20E-3087A80FEECF.dita">Tactile
feedback</xref>.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>