<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-7E2891DB-372F-517C-95A4-D706EF1DB8B3"><title>fc</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p><userinput>fc [ -e ename ] [ -nlrdDfEim ] [ old=new ... ] [ first [ last ] ] </userinput> </p> <p>or </p> <p><userinput>fc -ARWI [ filename ] </userinput> </p> <p>Select a range of commands from first to last from the history list. The arguments <codeph>first </codeph> and <codeph>last</codeph> may be specified as a number or as a string. A negative number is used as an offset to the current history event number. A string specifies the most recent event beginning with the given string. All substitutions <codeph>old=new</codeph>, if any, are then performed on the commands. </p> <table id="GUID-10212BF9-323B-5BE8-8151-EBA74F77CFD0"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><thead><row><entry>Option</entry> <entry>Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <codeph>-l</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The resulting commands are listed on standard output. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>-m</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The first argument is taken as a pattern (should be quoted) and only the history events matching this pattern will be shown. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>ename</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The editor program ename is invoked on a file containing these history events. If ename is not given, the value of the parameter <codeph>FCEDIT</codeph> is used. If ename is not given, editor is invoked. When editing is complete, the edited command is executed. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>-r</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Reverse the order of the commands. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>-n</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Suppresses command numbers when listing. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>-d</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Prints timestamps for each command. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>-f</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Prints full time-date stamps. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>-E</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Causes the dates to be printed as <codeph>dd.mm.yyyy</codeph>, instead of the default <codeph>mm/dd/yyyy</codeph>. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>-i</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Causes the dates to be printed in ISO8601 <codeph>yyyy-mm-dd</codeph> format. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>-D</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <codeph>fc</codeph> prints elapsed time. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> <ul><li id="GUID-63A4B791-18F0-5705-A56F-FAF53435626A"><p> <codeph>fc -R</codeph>: Reads the history from the given file. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-FEFB2027-9FE5-5726-BA5C-B38071ED329E"><p> <codeph>fc -W</codeph>: Writes the history out to the given file. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-7168582D-0EDB-52EF-ABAC-3B1D23F64FF7"><p> <codeph>fc -A</codeph>: Appends the history out to the given file. </p> </li> </ul> <p>If no filename is specified, the <codeph>$HISTFILE</codeph> is assumed. If the <codeph>-I</codeph> option is added to <codeph>-R</codeph>, only those events that are not already contained within the internal history list are added. If the <codeph>-I</codeph> option is added to <codeph>-A</codeph> or <codeph>-W</codeph>, only those events that are new since last incremental append/write to the history file are appended or written. In any case, the created file will have no more than <codeph>$SAVEHIST</codeph> entries. </p> <p>If <codeph>first </codeph> is not specified, it will be set to <codeph>-1</codeph> (the most recent event), or to <codeph>-16</codeph> if the <codeph>-l </codeph> flag is given. If <codeph>last</codeph> is not specified, it will be set to <codeph>first</codeph>, or to<codeph> -1</codeph> if the <codeph>-l </codeph> flag is given. </p> </conbody></concept>