<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-2B6DF036-F127-533C-A7A6-CD27BD3C5FED" xml:lang="en"><title>Category:
Form</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Text Views panics:</p>
<table id="GUID-028497B7-4FBF-530E-ACD3-933F51B99790">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>201</p> </entry>
<entry><p>A NULL layout handle was passed to <xref href="GUID-CF377A98-F11F-380F-AD10-7F3E261D4421.dita#GUID-CF377A98-F11F-380F-AD10-7F3E261D4421/GUID-026AE686-D21F-3093-A9FB-25D0DC4B87B3"><apiname>CTextView::NewL()</apiname></xref>,
or to <xref href="GUID-CF377A98-F11F-380F-AD10-7F3E261D4421.dita#GUID-CF377A98-F11F-380F-AD10-7F3E261D4421/GUID-0C7AA600-6699-32F2-A8C7-EC3C0443E674"><apiname>CTextView::SetLayout()</apiname></xref>.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>202</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The character edit type in <xref href="GUID-CF377A98-F11F-380F-AD10-7F3E261D4421.dita#GUID-CF377A98-F11F-380F-AD10-7F3E261D4421/GUID-8754535A-BC3C-38F5-AEED-24AE6E199E09"><apiname>CTextView::HandleCharEditL()</apiname></xref> was
unknown or incompatible with the format changed value. Debug builds only. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>203 </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The horizontal scroll jump value was set to be outside the allowable
range (0 to 9999).</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>300</p> </entry>
<entry><p>An invalid document position was specified (e.g. negative or greater
than the document length).</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>400</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Drawing error occurs while attempting to draw a line cursor without
a line cursor bitmap having been set.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>500</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Pagination error occurs while attempting to paginate without a document
having been set.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>501</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Pagination error occurs while appending zero or negative characters
per page to the page list (array of characters per page). Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>502</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Pagination error occurs while the page list is empty. Debug builds
only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>600</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Printing error occurs while the page list has not been set or is
defective.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>601</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Printing error occurs while an invalid page number was specified.
Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>702</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Document formatting error occurs while the selected range flag is
on but the selection has zero length. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>704</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Document formatting error occurs while the pixel position of the
cursor is inconsistent with the position of its bounding line rectangle.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>705</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Document formatting error occurs while the scroll caused by a single
character edit was incomplete. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>800</p> </entry>
<entry><p><codeph>CTextView::HandleCharEditL()</codeph> was called while there
is a text selection. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>801</p> </entry>
<entry><p>An attempt was made to update the view when the document formatting
is out of date. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>802</p> </entry>
<entry><p>An attempt was made to handle a text edit while background formatting
is taking place. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>901</p> </entry>
<entry><p>A scroll was requested, but the specified amount to scroll by is
zero. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>902</p> </entry>
<entry><p>An algorithmic error occurred while scrolling. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>903</p> </entry>
<entry><p>An error occurred when scrolling down. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>904</p> </entry>
<entry><p>An error occurred when scrolling up. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>905</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Invalid horizontal scroll value specified</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>1000</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Out of memory. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>1001</p> </entry>
<entry><p>An attempt was made to recover from an out of memory condition when
no out of memory condition has occurred. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>1100</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The cursor is not fully on the screen following a scroll. Debug
builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>1104</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The document position was out of range for the current source document.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>1200</p> </entry>
<entry><p>An attempt was made to turn highlighting on or off when the view
is in the no visible highlighting state. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>1202</p> </entry>
<entry><p>An attempt was made to create a graphics context for the view when
one already exists. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>1301</p> </entry>
<entry><p>A leave occurred when scrolling to change the cursor position.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>1302</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The cursor movement specified is inconsistent with the function
call. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>1303</p> </entry>
<entry><p>There is a picture frame at the cursor position, but no picture
frame is in memory. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>1304</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The value of a system constant has been changed. Debug builds only.</p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody></concept>