<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-6765CE65-069B-5551-95BD-FAB777C3FA90" xml:lang="en"><title>Connecting
via ethernet overview</title><shortdesc>Decribes one method for connecting the emulator to the Internet. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This guide describes how the emulator can share your PC's ethernet NIC
(Network Interface Card) with Windows, allowing the emulator to access to
the same ethernet network as your PC. If your PC uses the network to connect
to the Internet, then the emulator can connect to the Internet too. </p>
<p>This method provides a reliable, high-speed connection for the emulator.
It is normally the method recommended for Symbian platform are a couple of
situations where you might want to connect with a simulated dial-up connection
instead: </p>
<ul>
<li id="GUID-2A0FEE00-5CB1-5A5A-83DF-CF4D014045E9"><p>Ethernet is very fast
compared to other methods for connecting the emulator to networks. It does
not replicate the transmission speeds that you might expect with on a mobile
phone network. The simulated dial-up connection can replicate slower speeds. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-65A6E5B9-5722-59C1-B2D6-A326A0CEEB3E"><p>Real devices are unlikely
to connect via ethernet. Typically, dial-up networking or GPRS are used instead.
Use the simulated dial-up connection to replicate dial-up. </p> </li>
</ul>
<section id="GUID-6A59F763-77FA-4120-9671-6765563D11AC"><title>Making the
connection</title> <p>Follow one of the techniques below. This installation
needs to be repeated for every version of the Symbian platform development
environment you are using. </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-6FE1D1C7-D502-57F7-8BE1-D68D5A642949"><p> <xref href="GUID-3C6935E1-66C9-5115-901E-D3B1D0C2E783.dita">Quick
ethernet configuration</xref> </p> <p>This describes the quickest method for
setting up Symbian platform for ethernet. Use this if you are setting up the
emulator for the first time, or if you are not concerned about keeping your
current Communication Database configuration while you use ethernet. </p> <p>Although
this method replaces your current configuration, it will be backed up and
can be retrieved at a later date. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9B1EF3FD-D1BF-5340-8241-E2BB8938BA7A"><p> <xref href="GUID-88E89E94-7C9E-5583-827C-84FADD50F97E.dita">Modifying
your current configuration for ethernet</xref> </p> <p>Use this method to
set up ethernet if you have already edited your Communication Database and
wish to use it while using ethernet. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-CB4A96F6-AC66-48A1-A70F-B6915E812109"><title>Using and testing
the connection</title> <p>Once configured, ethernet can be used in the same
manner as any other network media: Start the emulator then start the application
that requires network connectivity, such as an Internet browser. You may be
prompted to select an <i>Internet Access Point (IAP)</i>: select the one you
created. </p> <p>The <xref href="GUID-A5C95115-2083-589C-BC82-906AB0DE5A38.dita">Troubleshooting
guide</xref> may help if you cannot connect the emulator to the network. To
test your connection, see <xref href="GUID-E1EF7223-02EA-5875-84E6-6415E7081F6E.dita">CommsInfras
API Tests</xref>. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>