<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="GUID-4BDC9F63-83A1-53A5-91A0-B092AA821755" xml:lang="en"><title>MakeSIS</title><abstract><p>The <codeph>MakeSIS</codeph> tool generates unsigned Software
Installation (SIS) files based on the information provided in package (PKG)
files.</p></abstract><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><refbody>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title> <p><userinput>makesis <parmname>[OPTIONS]</parmname> <cmdname> &lt;ARGS&gt;</cmdname> </userinput> </p> <p>The
following table lists the options supported by the <codeph>MakeSIS</codeph> tool. </p> <table id="GUID-3507EC30-B539-5F94-BFFA-073B0BC98177">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Options </entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
<entry>Usage</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>-h</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Displays the help for PKG file format. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>makesis [-h]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>-i</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Displays the Open SSL licence. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>makesis [-i]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>-v</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Displays verbose output. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>makesis [-v]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>-s</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Generates a ROM stub file. See <xref href="GUID-4BDC9F63-83A1-53A5-91A0-B092AA821755.dita#GUID-4BDC9F63-83A1-53A5-91A0-B092AA821755/GUID-DEF21F73-CF37-51BD-8AD4-E58BEF3D2C44">Notes</xref> for more information. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>makesis [-s] [-d directory] pkgfile</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>-c</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Reports an error if the generated SIS file is not compatible with
the InterpretSIS tool for preinstall. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>makesis [-c] [-d directory] pkgfile</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>The following table lists the arguments to be specified with the <codeph>MakeSIS</codeph> tool. </p> <table id="GUID-0CFA878E-F0FF-5831-B24B-320921C5CA4D">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Arguments </entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>-d directory</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies absolute paths in PKG files or paths relative to the current
directory. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>pkgfile</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the PKG file, for which a SIS file is generated. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>sisfile</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the name of the generated SIS file. </p> <p>If not specified,
the output SIS filename is derived from the name of the PKG file, but with
a <filepath>SIS</filepath> file extension. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </refsyn>
<section id="GUID-DEF21F73-CF37-51BD-8AD4-E58BEF3D2C44"><title>Notes</title> <ul>
<li id="GUID-9877B442-775B-5754-BB99-9DA810D30552"><p>A stub SIS file is created
by the software installer on the Symbian device after a package has been installed.
It details which files were installed and where, and is used when uninstalling
and upgrading the package. For pre-installed applications in ROM, <codeph>makesis
-s</codeph> can be used to create a stub SIS file. </p> <p>Stub files that
are created, contain a fixed date/time stamp of 2004/01/01 00:00. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2136F1C0-1FD1-58FF-8E6B-6D09D5E89DBF"><p>You can use the <codeph>–d</codeph> argument
with the <codeph>EPOCROOT</codeph> environment variable to avoid using absolute
paths in PKG files or relative paths to the current directory. </p> <p>By
default, binaries are built to the <filepath>epoc32</filepath> tree. So, if
files are described in the PKG file as, for example: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-7F3A3056-88A8-5D19-9CB9-C3135D17DD95" xml:space="preserve">"epoc32\release\armv5\urel\HelloWorld.exe"-"!:\sys\bin\HelloWorld.exe"
"epoc32\release\armv5\urel\z\resource\apps\HelloWorld.rsc"-"!:\resource\apps\HelloWorld.rsc"</codeblock> <p>then <codeph>MakeSIS</codeph> can
be invoked from any location using: </p> <p><userinput>makesis -d%EPOCROOT%
HelloWorld.pkg</userinput> </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
</refbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-43B4B4E7-413E-5D18-811C-4B9E38CDEB69.dita"><linktext>PKG Format</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-B20EE8A3-D7B2-5872-AF43-001A88C1A46E.dita"><linktext>SignSIS</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-AA555CC1-5CFF-5609-9191-8970F32BA255.dita"><linktext>CreateSIS</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-03BBEA31-3266-5B1C-9017-4EE7EA4AF1A8.dita"><linktext>Creating
and Signing an Installation File</linktext></link>
</related-links></reference>