<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task xml:lang="en" id="GUID-624DE708-A3B3-596B-9EBD-08610D914A29"><title>HSCSD Call Parameters Tutorial</title><shortdesc>This tutorial explains how to get and set the High Speed Circuit Switched Data (HSCSD) call parameters. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody> <context><p>The HSCSD provides fast data services on 2G GSM networks by using multiple channel slots for a single call. </p> <p>Parameters for HSCSD data calls are stored by the <xref href="GUID-7B623041-5DB3-3EF6-AAF4-5AA89B519855.dita"><apiname>RMobileCall::TMobileHscsdCallParamsV1</apiname></xref> class. The class inherits from <xref href="GUID-7B623041-5DB3-3EF6-AAF4-5AA89B519855.dita"><apiname>RMobileCall::TMobileDataCallParamsV1</apiname></xref>, which in turn derives from <xref href="GUID-7B623041-5DB3-3EF6-AAF4-5AA89B519855.dita"><apiname>RMobileCall::TMobileCallParamsV1</apiname></xref>, which in turn derives from <xref href="GUID-7B623041-5DB3-3EF6-AAF4-5AA89B519855.dita"><apiname>RCall::TCallParams</apiname></xref>. </p> </context> <steps id="GUID-DA806093-8C0C-5023-9C88-3F546B9D252E"> <step id="GUID-F8BDB975-E551-5FD2-8A0C-57E0C3A05B3E"><cmd>Send a package object to <xref href="GUID-7B623041-5DB3-3EF6-AAF4-5AA89B519855.dita"><apiname>RCall::Dial()</apiname></xref> to set the call parameters for outbound calls. </cmd> </step> <step id="GUID-D98EE338-0DC0-58C7-AA2B-17CC2669F3D0"><cmd>Send the package object to <xref href="GUID-7B623041-5DB3-3EF6-AAF4-5AA89B519855.dita"><apiname>RCall::AnswerIncomingCall()</apiname></xref> to set the parameters for inbound calls. </cmd> </step> <step id="GUID-FFC485BD-DF13-531E-8F06-56B463C338EE"><cmd>Use <xref href="GUID-7B623041-5DB3-3EF6-AAF4-5AA89B519855.dita"><apiname>RCall::GetCallParams()</apiname></xref> to get the HSCSD parameters. </cmd> </step> <step id="GUID-A2BE7537-72BC-5AE3-945F-EAE74A0F75E3"><cmd>Use <xref href="GUID-7B623041-5DB3-3EF6-AAF4-5AA89B519855.dita"><apiname>RMobileCall::SetDynamicHscsdParams()</apiname></xref> to dynamically change the HSCSD call parameters. </cmd> </step> <step id="GUID-B9BBB475-B0B5-59CF-BB61-ECCA828E19C2"><cmd>Use <xref href="GUID-7B623041-5DB3-3EF6-AAF4-5AA89B519855.dita"><apiname>RMobileCall::GetCurrentHscsdInfo()</apiname></xref> to get the current HSCSD parameters of the call. </cmd> <info>Parameters are returned in an <xref href="GUID-7B623041-5DB3-3EF6-AAF4-5AA89B519855.dita"><apiname>RMobileCall::TMobileCallHscsdInfoV1</apiname></xref> object. </info> </step> <step id="GUID-8A0EB85F-3426-5322-B353-08BAB4D7E81F"><cmd>Use <xref href="GUID-7B623041-5DB3-3EF6-AAF4-5AA89B519855.dita"><apiname>RMobileCall::NotifyHscsdInfoChange()</apiname></xref> to get the notification of any network initiated changes to the HSCSD parameters. </cmd> </step> </steps> <example><title>HSCSD parameters example</title> <p>The following code describes how to get the HSCD air interface user rate of a call. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-42702557-A523-54EA-BF70-A09E457E59AE" xml:space="preserve">RMobileCall::TMobileCallAiur CClientApp::HSCDAiurL(const RMobileCall&amp; aCall)
    {
    RMobileCall::TMobileCallHscsdInfoV1 hscsdInfo;
    RMobileCall::TMobileCallHscsdInfoV1Pckg hscsdInfoPckg(hscsdInfo);

    User::LeaveIfError(aCall.GetCurrentHscsdInfo(hscsdInfoPckg));
    return hscsdInfo.iAiur;
    }
</codeblock> </example> </taskbody></task>