<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-EA9D7B60-C4EA-5D29-9296-3E4C8B973F59" xml:lang="en"><title>MTP
Data Providers Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>MTP data providers act as a storage management layer for specific media
data formats. They are responsible for storing and retrieving media data objects
and the metadata related to those objects on request by the MTP framework. </p>
<section id="GUID-62C1AA63-9C6B-4A39-BFAC-E2E97C0602A6"><title>Architecture</title> <p>MTP
data providers are implemented as ECom plug-ins loaded into the MTP framework.
They interact with the MTP framework using the MTP Data Provider API. For
more information about the MTP architecture, refer to <xref href="GUID-F1DD8800-389C-5A88-A5EB-138359EF7DC5.dita">MTP
Framework Overview</xref>. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-70570F1A-C430-43B0-AE1B-7FBC9963A4AE"><title>Description</title> <p>Data
provider plug-ins can be built into the ROM or installed by means of SIS files
without reflashing the firmware. </p> <p>The Symbian MTP solution is implemented
as a single-threaded server process which is referred to as a daemon. Each
time an MTP client application starts the daemon for MTP services, the data
provider loading mechanism uses the ECOM framework to list all of the registered
MTP data providers from ROM and non-ROM drives. The data providers are then
loaded from the appropriate directory based on the registration information. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-91F7D401-1EEA-4779-A905-ABE35019A765"><title>Components</title> <p>The
Symbian platform provides the following data providers. The MTP Data Provider
API enables device creators to create additional data provider plug-ins to
support specific media and data types. </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-7F4BF99E-85A5-5CAA-BC76-52A2C6B7040D"><p> <b>The Device Data
Provider</b> is built into the MTP Framework. It provides device-related function
such as getting device properties. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-5C0B8802-6814-5709-9216-ABD50E37F9DD"><p> <b>The Proxy Data Provider</b> is
built into the MTP Framework. It is a special data provider which coordinates
other data providers and the MTP framework. It provides routing mechanisms
to select the right data provider(s) for some operation requests. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-67C1D059-CF9E-5ADB-B860-72BB5A0C715F"><p> <b>The File Data Provider</b> communicates
with Windows file explorer. It enables the PC to display and manipulate the
device's public file system. For a list of the supported properties, see <xref href="GUID-103DBC39-CD6A-5632-AA21-88C3DD489B51.dita">Properties Supported by File
Data Provider</xref>. </p> </li>




<li id="GUID-EAF24AE2-C3FD-5B77-8362-D72F8D43BE46"><p> <b>The Image Data Provider</b> enables
transfer of images between a Symbian device and a Windows 7 PC. It supports
the EXIF/JPEG (<codeph>0x3801</codeph>) image file format. Image files with
the extensions <codeph>.jpg</codeph> and <codeph>.jpeg</codeph> are supported
by the data provider. </p> <p>The Image Data Provider supports certain image-related
properties. For a list of the supported properties, see <xref href="GUID-E7BB398C-5F5B-50F3-BEDD-B787A7455CCF.dita">Properties
Supported by Image Data Provider</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-CDBB53AB-F2A5-5936-B82B-6DC47A49338F"><p> <b>The Pictbridge Data
Provider</b> enables printing of JPEG/JPG images stored on a Symbian device
directly to a <xref href="http://www.cipa.jp/english/pictbridge/" scope="external">Pictbridge</xref> capable
printer by USB connection. Device creators can decide whether to include or
exclude this data provider in the ROM image at build time. To include this
data provider in the ROM image, enable the <codeph>__USB_PICTBRIDGE</codeph> flag. </p> <p>The
object properties supported by this data provider are listed in <xref href="GUID-202477C2-8E6B-5848-B419-59F1AE8C197F.dita">Properties
Supported by Pictbridge Data Provider</xref>. </p> </li>
</ul><note> The MTP framework manages transport connections to enable communication
between the Symbian device and the PC depending on the type of data provider.
Three are modes of MTP transport supported: USB, Bluetooth and PTP-IP. For
details of these transport modes, see <xref href="GUID-8F5FAFAB-545A-5BF0-A3B5-6499F2D1AAD0.dita">MTP
Transports Overview</xref>.</note> </section>
<section id="GUID-5EA4D604-253F-4A0A-8334-20E224F06202"><title>Using MTP Data
Providers</title> <p>The MTP Framework manages data providers and loads specific
data provider plug-in(s) to handle various MTP operations and requests. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>