<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-64D62DD8-3D9C-4659-9658-C0B4D74D6E69" xml:lang="en"><title>Writing
the Version 2 Registration Resource File</title><shortdesc>Writing a version 2 registration resource file is similar to writing
a standard registration resource file.  </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context>       <p>All the variables required to write a standard registration
resource file must be set. In addition:  </p>     </context>
<steps-unordered>
<step id="GUID-7F2A2305-31F5-431E-8DB5-467859CF5814"><cmd>Set<codeph> resource_format_version</codeph> to
the value of <codeph>RESOURCE_FORMAT_VERSION_2</codeph> defined in <filepath>RegistryInfoV2.rh</filepath>.
 </cmd>
</step>
<step id="GUID-28395805-0EBC-4A16-9AD5-FE88F412EE5C"><cmd>In the <codeph>IMPLEMENTATION_INFO</codeph> resource
that declares the properties of a single implementation, set an additional
member <codeph>rom_only</codeph>.  </cmd>
<info><p><codeph>rom_only</codeph> set to 1 indicates the ROM-only implementation
must be used.  </p><p><codeph>rom_only</codeph> set to 0 indicates the ROM-only
implementation can be overidden.  </p><note> <codeph>rom_only</codeph> value
must be set individually for all implementations declared in a version 2 registration
resource file. </note></info>
<info><p>A RAM plug-in can also use a version 2 registration resource file.
However, the implementation must set <codeph>rom_onlymember</codeph> to 0.
In case it is set to one the plug-in cannot be used.   </p></info>
</step>
</steps-unordered>
<example><p>The following example gives a resource registration file for an
implementation collection with two implementations. The first implementation
cannot be overridden by a RAM-based plug-in and the second can be overridden
by a RAM-based plug-in.</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">// 10009DB1.RSS
//
#include "RegistryInfoV2.rh"

RESOURCE REGISTRY_INFO theInfo
{
// resource_format_version must always be set as follows
resource_format_version = RESOURCE_FORMAT_VERSION_2;

// Normal plug-in parameters
dll_uid = 0x10009DB5;
interfaces = 
	{
	INTERFACE_INFO
		{
		interface_uid = 0x10009DC9;
		implementations = 
			{
			IMPLEMENTATION_INFO
				{
				implementation_uid = 0x10009DCA;
				version_no = 1;
				display_name = "Example Implementation - ROM-only ";
				default_data = "text/wml";
				opaque_data = "";
    
				// This implementation CANNOT be overridden by a RAM-based plug-in
				rom_only = 1;
				},
			IMPLEMENTATION_INFO
				{
				implementation_uid = 0x10009DCB;
				version_no = 1;
				display_name = "Example Implementation - not ROM-only ";
				default_data = "text/wml";
				opaque_data = "";

				// This implementation CAN be overridden by a RAM-based plug-in
				rom_only = 0;
				}
			};
		}
	};
}</codeblock></example>
</taskbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-B541BD01-29BE-4CB7-9420-ABEE0BDC9BA4.dita"><linktext>Writing a
Standard Registration Resource File</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-39186342-960A-46A4-BC35-851F53665FA8.dita"><linktext>Writing the
Version 3 Registration Resource File</linktext></link>
</related-links></task>