<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-A5C95115-2083-589C-BC82-906AB0DE5A38" xml:lang="en"><title>Troubleshooting
guide</title><shortdesc>Common errors and solutions to avoid whilst using ethernet.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The following may help if you have trouble connecting the emulator: </p>
<section id="GUID-E576CB5D-B796-49E9-A510-5F498674B7E0"><title>Specific errors</title> <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt><b>HttpExampleClient.exe reports error -1</b> </dt>
<dd><p>In most cases <systemoutput>-1</systemoutput> indicates that the current
comms database is not compatible with the emulator. </p> <p>The best way to
avoid trouble is to use the <xref href="GUID-3C6935E1-66C9-5115-901E-D3B1D0C2E783.dita">Quick
ethernet configuration</xref>. Ensure that the <codeph>IAP</codeph>, <codeph>LANBearer</codeph> and <codeph>LANService</codeph> tables
are set up exactly as indicated. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><b>HttpExampleClient.exe reports error -5120</b> </dt>
<dd><p>This error indicates that the URL cannot be resolved to an IP address.
This is usually caused by a problem with DNS; either the location of the DNS
server is incorrectly specified or there is no DNS server. </p> <p>If using
a statically allocated DNS address, check that the value in your comms database's <codeph>LANService</codeph> table
is correct for your network. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><b>Windows reports that there is an IP address conflict</b> </dt>
<dd><p>The likely cause is that the (static) IP address of your emulator is
the same as that of your computer. This will not occur if your IP addresses
are dynamically allocated. </p> <p>The solution is to ensure that the emulator
is allocated a unique IP address in the <codeph>LANService</codeph> table
of the comms database configuration file. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
</dl> </section>
<section id="GUID-03CA9CE3-2262-406F-949A-83611A89F91E"><title>Checklist</title> <ul>
<li id="GUID-2CAEC3B6-C3A4-5AF7-A72C-2EFE217C8E6A"><p>Ensure only one copy
of <i>WinPcap</i> is installed. Version 4.0 is known to work with Symbian
platform </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0425F662-A42E-52D2-BA1A-A60D54C5FD6F"><p>For EKA1 kernel, ensure <filepath>etherdriver.dat</filepath> and <filepath>ethermac.dat</filepath> are in <filepath>\epoc32\&lt;wins or                 winscw&gt;\c\system\data\</filepath> </p> <p>For
EKA2 kernel, ensure that the file <filepath>\epoc32\data\epoc.ini</filepath> exists </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F708C504-C4CF-5877-91CA-86ECF08718ED"><p>For EKA 1, verify the
contents of <filepath>etherdriver.dat</filepath>. The file should contain
a string that resembles a Windows registry key. For example: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-CBBF49DA-7FC8-5371-A523-A1DD15607859" xml:space="preserve">\Device\NPF_{A2E3CC5B-AD54-4F47-BE93-2C3E06}</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-8EC69637-EAF5-5A69-8B88-42C7106FF3E2"><p>For EKA 1, ensure <filepath>ethermac.dat</filepath> contains
a valid MAC address and there is no line-break at the end of the file. The
MAC address should only contain numbers and letters, no hyphens </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-97F7074E-066D-5680-ADFF-36D0D15247AB"><p>Be careful not to confuse <filepath>etherdriver.dat</filepath> with <filepath>ethermac.dat</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-269F2760-A117-54B8-BE02-DC7D32CB6339"><p>For EKA2, ensure that <filepath>\epoc32\data\epoc.ini</filepath> contains
something similar to: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-0852E30B-C0C3-56D6-8B8A-68D35B3F8ABB" xml:space="preserve">ETHER_NIF=\Device\NPF_{8A2D1EEF-A264-49CF-A681-6BFFB7608F48}
        ETHER_MAC=0202a5b856c9
        ETHER_SPEED=10Mbps</codeblock> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-B2F39D70-044C-4012-A148-4ED912CA15F1"><title>Debug information</title> <ul>
<li id="GUID-6F534892-4770-5E64-8B93-36C1315F05B6"><p>When using a debug build,
the Symbian platform ethernet software writes log files to the <filepath>c:\logs\log.txt</filepath> file.
This file is in your Symbian platform platform's C drive, such as <filepath>\epoc32\winscw\c</filepath> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F83012C2-9303-5CE6-8CAB-6DE5D36ECF51"><p> <i>Ethereal</i> is
an open-source protocol analyser that can be used to capture traffic from
the adapter; see <xref href="www.ethereal.com" scope="external">www.ethereal.com</xref>.
It can be especially useful in tracking down problems with the DHCP negotiation </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2ADD828B-0EA9-5F74-8008-F50F6B6DFBAB"><p>When developing with
Microsoft tools, the MSDEV output window shows each packet sent and received
by the Symbian platformethernet driver. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
</conbody></concept>