<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-1B93FFF8-5DDD-491F-86F5-5246B321D3C2-GENID-1-12-1-12-1-1-8-1-5-1-8-1" xml:lang="en"><title>Updating
System TZ Data Using Software Installation</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context id="GUID-115F9FEC-AAE7-4DAB-9490-261BDA7CA4B6-GENID-1-12-1-12-1-1-8-1-5-1-8-1-2-1">       <p>This tutorial
describes how to update System TZ Data.</p><p>A client may need to update
the system time zone database as changes in existing time zone rules are introduced.
An example is the recent change in DST (daylight saving time) start and end
times in North America.   </p><p>If there are new time zones in the updated
TZ database, the update also needs to include localization data for these
time zones.   </p><p>There may also be a need to make changes to existing
time zones’ localization data. Examples of this include the correction of
typographic errors and reflecting city name changes. Notable city name changes
include Peking to Beijing and Leningrad to Saint Petersburg.   </p><p>To update
system TZ data a client must create a SIS (Symbian installation) file that
contains the updated TZ database.  </p><p>Create a Symbian Installation (SIS)
file that contains the updated TZ database. The SIS file may also contain
TZ localization resources. To create a SIS file you need to write a PKG (package)
file, which is a normal text file with the extension <codeph>.pkg</codeph>.
Example content of this file is given in the following steps:</p></context>
<steps id="GUID-4DD07DEC-6017-4237-BE46-1D69E5FBD744-GENID-1-12-1-12-1-1-8-1-5-1-8-1-2-2">
<step id="GUID-9A69E5AD-E938-4092-A8C2-CB65C37C8962-GENID-1-12-1-12-1-1-8-1-5-1-8-1-2-2-1"><cmd>Specify a language.
An example is English.</cmd>
<stepxmp><p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">&amp;EN</codeblock></p></stepxmp>
</step>
<step id="GUID-3100AA24-CEA9-47EC-9C8F-B12A701C4FD5-GENID-1-12-1-12-1-1-8-1-5-1-8-1-2-2-2"><cmd>Set a header.</cmd>
<stepxmp><p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">#{"System TZ Data Update"}, (0x200020B0), 1, 1, 0, TYPE=SP</codeblock></p></stepxmp>
</step>
<step id="GUID-37445712-0B81-4F31-AF3C-DA43DB7D4670-GENID-1-12-1-12-1-1-8-1-5-1-8-1-2-2-3"><cmd>Specify the vendor. (This is Symbian):</cmd>
<stepxmp><p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">%{"Symbian Software Ltd."}
:"Symbian Software Ltd."
</codeblock></p></stepxmp>
</step>
<step id="GUID-9208FDAF-7774-412A-9371-00EC964E297F-GENID-1-12-1-12-1-1-8-1-5-1-8-1-2-2-4"><cmd>Define local files and the target location to be updated (eclipsed).</cmd>
<stepxmp><p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">"..\data\tzdb.dbz"-"$:\private\1020383E\tzdb.dbz"
"..\data\tz.r01 "-"$:\resource\timezonelocalization\timezones.r01"
"..\data\tzg.r01"-"$:\resource\timezonelocalization\timezonegroups.r01"
"..\data\tz.r02 "-"$:\resource\timezonelocalization\timezones.r02"
"..\data\tzg.r02"-"$:\resource\timezonelocalization\timezonegroups.r02"</codeblock></p></stepxmp>
<info><p>The sample includes the TZ database and two sets of TZ localization
resources files, one for English (<codeph>*.r01</codeph>) and one for French
(<codeph>*.r02</codeph>).   </p><p>The PKG file can reference one TZ database.
The TZ database may be omitted if the update does not require any changes
to the TZ rules within the TZ database.   </p><p>The PKG file can reference
any number of sets of TZ localization resources. These resources may be omitted
if the update does not require any changes to the TZ localization strings.
  </p><p>For information on building SIS files from PKG files see <xref href="GUID-ED2D5BEA-AD2A-51CE-8CBC-8B5E33DD6356.dita">Secure
Software Install SIS Tools</xref>. </p></info>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody><related-links>
<linklist>
<link href="GUID-100F41B4-67BE-5978-99DA-C9B6DE8760F7.dita"><linktext>Secure Software
Install SIS Tools Reference</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-43B4B4E7-413E-5D18-811C-4B9E38CDEB69.dita"><linktext>Package file
format</linktext></link>
</linklist>
</related-links></task>