<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-1FE5D4D5-B2BF-4090-9F69-D538B2220DA3" xml:lang="en"><title>Handle
Global Variable Example</title><shortdesc>This example demonstrates: </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>How to handle global variables within the library code </p>
<p>How to use WSD (Writable Static Data) in dll</p>
<section id="GUID-026FD8D6-6C4A-5958-B289-775D4AE1E756-GENID-1-10-1-12-1-1-5-1-3-1-11-1-11-1-3-3"><title>Download</title> <p>Click
on the following link to download the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-723e559a-ab8e-435f-a34c-78b7a32f1fb9.zip" scope="external"> handleglobalvar.zip</xref></p><p>Click: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-723e559a-ab8e-435f-a34c-78b7a32f1fb9.html" scope="peer">browse</xref> to view the example code. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-7E7C4564-B10E-41F9-8A9D-D8A6C5E9C51C-GENID-1-10-1-12-1-1-5-1-3-1-11-1-11-1-3-4"><title>Design and
Implementation</title> <p>The following sections provide information about
the implementation of the example.</p> <p><b>Capabilities</b> </p>The
program capabilities are defined in <filepath>globalvarex.mmp</filepath>:<codeph> CAPABILITY
NONE</codeph>. Libwsddll library capabilities are defined in<filepath>libwsddll.mmp</filepath> file: <codeph>CAPABILITY
ALL -TCB</codeph>. <p><b> Application Launching</b> </p>The application can
be launched by executing globalvarex from eshell. <p><b>libwsd library </b></p>This
library is used to get/set dll global Data. It demonstrates how to handle
WSD (Writable Static Data).<p><b>How to handle WSD in dll</b></p>Collect all
global variables within the structure TWsdData and creat the instance whenever
it's required. For target release, use global variables and add EPOCALLOWDLLDATA
in the library mmp file. wsddll.h and wsddll.cpp implement the concept of
how to handle WSD data in Dll. </section>
<section id="GUID-67A72761-1D92-46D1-B1C9-7455978BDE4E-GENID-1-10-1-12-1-1-5-1-3-1-11-1-11-1-3-5"><title>Building and
Using</title> To build the handleglobalvar example application, go to the
handleglobalvar\group directory and build the application.  The definition
for the whole application can be found in the bld.inf file in the group subdirectory
of the applications main directory. </section>
</conbody></concept>