<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-16218C7E-B927-5729-9A05-680A3D0D8BDE" xml:lang="en"><title>File Data
Provider Configuration Parameters</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The File Data Provider plug-in can be configured using the <codeph>MTP_FILEDP_CONFIG</codeph> resource. <codeph>MTP_FILEDP_CONFIG</codeph> is
then used as the <codeph>opaque_resource</codeph> within an <codeph>MTP_DATA_PROVIDER</codeph> resource.
These resources are defined in <filepath>mtpfiledp_config.rss</filepath> as
shown below. The file is compiled and exported as <filepath>z:/resource/mtp/102827B0.rsc</filepath>  </p>
<section><title>Syntax</title><p>The configurable parameters are: </p><ul>
<li id="GUID-A72A150C-4297-5FEF-8E74-C4B398028699"><p> <b>Object Enumeration
Iteration Length</b>: This parameter configures object store enumeration by
specifying the maximum number of data objects to be enumerated on each iteration
of the process. Its purpose is to ensure that reasonable active scheduler
RunL durations are maintained. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-32798FE7-C471-510E-99EA-5ADFD23B778C"><p> <b> File Format Exclusion
List</b>: This parameter specifies the set of Symbian file system file formats
which are excluded from the object enumeration process. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-35441470-D26D-59EB-9E13-334E0361A88F"><p> <b>Extension Map</b>:
This parameter specifies the set of the mapping file extensions for the file
codes in the <codeph>format_exclusion_list</codeph>. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<example><codeblock xml:space="preserve">#include &lt;ecom/registryinfo.rh&gt;
#include &lt;mtp/mtpdpinfo.rh&gt;
#include "mtpfiledp_config.rh"

RESOURCE MTP_DATA_PROVIDER dpConfig
    {
    type = EMtpDataTypeEcom;
    major_version = 1;
    object_enumeration_persistent = 0;
    supported_modes = KMtpModeMTP;  
    server_name = "";
    server_image_name = "";
    opaque_resource = fileConfig;
    }

RESOURCE MTP_FILEDP_CONFIG fileConfig
    {
    enumeration_iteration_length = 32;
    format_exclusion_list = {
        // Association 
        0x3009  //mp3 code added to exclusion list, handled by Music Data Provider.
        };

    extension_map = {
   
   MTP_FILEDP_EXTENSION_MAP // mp3 added to extension map, handled by Music Data Provider.
   {
   file_extension = "mp3";
   mtp_object_format = 0x3009;
   },
   ...
        };
    }
...</codeblock></example>
</conbody></concept>