<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="GUID-931F2B0C-0F7D-5819-83AF-8EC2C8988538" xml:lang="en"><title>Email
Settings</title><shortdesc>The Email collection provides IMAP MTM, POP3 MTM and SMTP MTM components
to support the IMAP4, POP3 and SMTP email protocols respectively. These components
provide APIs to modify configuration settings of an email MTM. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><refbody>
<section><p>The configuration settings are broadly classified as below: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-C614F440-92D2-576C-BFFD-4C4CDBFEA092"><p> <b>Service settings:</b> Allows
the messaging client to modify the settings parameters and save them. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-76F48B41-6C6A-5FDE-8A87-47C8B4F25D1B"><p> <b>Internet Access
Provider (IAP) preferences setting:</b> Allows the messaging client to modify
the IAP preferences and save them. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-D6247431-770B-549E-9B5C-9EE31820C3BF"><p> <b>SNAP preferences:</b> Allows
the messaging client to set a SNAP identifier to use for internet access. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>Service settings</title> <p>These settings can be modified
by the functions provided by the Email MTM component. Applicable settings
for protocols are marked. </p> <table id="GUID-C85C1446-3106-59F4-9C02-06D7827327F6">
<tgroup cols="5"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><colspec colname="col3"/><colspec colname="col4"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Setting</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
<entry>SMTP</entry>
<entry>POP3</entry>
<entry>IMAP4</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Acknowledge receipts </p> </entry>
<entry><p>If the sender of an email message has requested a receipt notification,
the messaging client can check this setting and compose a receipt notification
message. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>-</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Bearer Mobility </p> </entry>
<entry><p>If enabled, indicates that the email service shall attempt a bearer
migration when a preferred carrier becomes available (upgrade), or when the
carrier over which an existing connection has been made becomes unavailable
(downgrade). </p> <p>The following is the default migration: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-C185CE8D-4825-5288-9A86-E8AA2DED9FEF"><p> <b>upgrade:</b> allow
any outstanding operation to complete, then attempt to switch to the new bearer. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-4F8B5FF0-147D-5CC2-A10F-5717ACA1409D"><p> <b>downgrade:</b> immediately
close connected sockets, then attempt to switch to the new bearer. Any operations
in progress at the time of the migration is resumed when connection has been
made through the new carrier. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>The default policy is plug-in replaceable, allowing migration notices
to be ignored or modifying the handling of outstanding operations, which may
be suspended and resumed following the migration. </p> <p>Note that Bearer
Mobility can only be performed when the account connection preferences specify
a SNAP, see <xref href="GUID-AD6587AD-A5B2-5369-9217-D752A37490C4.dita">Bearer
Mobility</xref>. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Body encoding </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the encoding used when sending an email message. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>-</p> </entry>
<entry><p>-</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Default character set </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Sets the character set of the out-bound email message. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Disable IMAP Folder Tree Synchronisation </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies whether the remote folder tree shall be synchronised as
part of account synchronisation operations. The default setting is <codeph>EFalse</codeph>,
which means that the folder tree synchronisation shall be performed. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Disconnected user mode </p> </entry>
<entry><p>If enabled, allows the messaging client to fetch, move, and delete
mailbox messages while not connected by queuing offline operations. </p> <p>The
queued offline operations are automatically processed the next time the messaging
client connects, just before login and Inbox synchronisation. For the IMAP4
protocol, messages are not marked as invisible when disconnected if this setting
is enabled. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Email address </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The email address of the subscriber. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Email alias </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The name of the subscriber as they want it to appear in the header
of the email messages they send. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Folder path </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The path to the IMAP4 mailbox on the server if the subscriber’s
primary mailbox is not the Inbox. </p> <p> <b>Note:</b> Most messaging clients
need not have to set this. Refer to RFC 3501, Section 5.1 Mailbox naming for
more information. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Get Mail Options </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies how new messages must be fetched when synchronising. The
available options are: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-F28822E7-6AC0-515E-B53F-C7C65CDF665B"><p>Headers only </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7DBDC59C-9E5D-5965-B133-A44A211AD6F1"><p>Body text only (applicable
to IMAP4 only) </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B8820C8C-AA0D-5A86-A5E8-837F22887BB9"><p>Attachments only (applicable
to IMAP4 only) </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-57F98841-57F7-5180-8D6A-C00934875F94"><p>Entire message </p> </li>
</ul> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>IMAP IDLE </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies whether the IMAP IDLE command must be used as defined
in RFC2177. </p> <p>The default setting is <codeph>ETrue</codeph> which means
that the IMAP IDLE command is used, if the server supports it. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>IMAP IDLE timeout </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the IMAP IDLE timeout in seconds. The default setting
is 1740 seconds (29 minutes). </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>IMAP Synchronisation Download Rules </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies which message parts to automatically download when synchronising
the contents of an IMAP email account. See <xref href="GUID-75B1B1DF-4EC2-59BC-8BE0-A8AD681798C5.dita">IMAP
Account Settings</xref> for more information. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>IMAP Transport Buffer Sizes </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Allows a client to configure transport buffer sizes of IMAP accounts
according to bearer type for fetching of large message parts. </p> <p>It is
possible to specify: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-8083E140-B97C-50FE-8582-92D5BAE8A390"><p>maximum fetch size (default
is 20480 octets) </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-170DDB00-B16E-5BCC-A4EC-98E6201C88F9"><p>maximum outstanding
fetch requests (default is 2 outstanding requests) </p> </li>
</ul> <p>Note that this is a global setting that affects all IMAP accounts. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Inbox refresh rate </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies whether to periodically poll the email server for new
messages, and if so, how frequently. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Inbox synchronisation limit </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Sets the limit (if any) for the number message headers stored in
the Inbox of the local device when synchronising. </p> <p>Older message headers
are deleted to make space for newer message headers. Messages that have had
body text or attachments downloaded will not be deleted and are not considered
part of the Inbox count limit. Can also be used to disable Inbox synchronisation
after a connection. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Include signature </p> </entry>
<entry><p>If the subscriber has a signature, it is append the body text of
out-bound email messages. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Include VCard </p> </entry>
<entry><p>If the subscriber has a VCard, the VCard is attached to out-bound
email messages. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Login name </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The subscriber’s login name. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Login password </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The subscriber’s login password. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Mailbox synchronisation limit </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Sets the limit (if any) for the number of messages headers stored
in non-Inbox folders on the local device when synchronising. </p> <p>Older
message headers are deleted to make space for newer message headers. Messages
that have had body text or attachments downloaded will not be deleted and
are not considered part of the non-Inbox count limit. Can also be used to
disable folder synchronisation. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Maximum email size </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Allows the messaging client to specify a maximum size (if any) in
KB that are downloaded. If the email is larger than the maximum size, none
of its body text or attachments are downloaded. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Path separator </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Allows the messaging client to specify the character used to separate
hierarchical mailbox names on the IMAP4 server. Refer to RFC 3501 section
5.1.1 for more information. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Reply-to address </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The email address that the subscriber wishes any replies to their
email messages to be sent to. However, it is possible to override this on
a per message basis when composing the message. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Request receipt </p> </entry>
<entry><p>If enabled, sent messages indicates to the receiving messaging client
that they want a receipt notification message (for example, a read notification)
sent back to the email address specified in the receipt address setting. It
is entirely up to the receiving messaging client whether it complies with
this request. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Receipt address </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The email address that message receipt notifications is sent to
if request receipts has been enabled. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Secure sockets </p> </entry>
<entry><p>If enabled, a secure TLS connection is negotiated over an un-secure
socket on the specified server port according to RFC 2595 and 3207 specifications. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Send copy to self </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies how copies of messages must be send to the sender. The
available options are: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-28276A85-A423-5C85-B8DC-E5590877496D"><p>Do not send a copy </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-E56F00B8-49C4-51F0-8223-06C0F2AB8D50"><p>Send a copy by including
the sender’s email address in the To recipients of the email to be sent </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-CA713DF3-97F0-54F1-84F7-F608FF1F4F1A"><p>Send a copy by including
the sender’s email address in the Cc recipients of the email to be sent </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-E28B8830-E87F-5351-9581-4C1BB2B26A9D"><p>Send a copy by including
the sender’s email address in the Bcc recipients of the email to be sent </p> </li>
</ul> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Send message options </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies how the message is sent. The available options are: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-0DFFAD00-E8D0-5A7A-BAE7-9B288468EBDA"><p>Send messages next time
the subscriber connects to their mailbox </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-1A1F2366-F8F4-5563-9963-FCDC070A94FA"><p>Send messages immediately </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8EDFB259-896C-5709-9BC4-6B432F352F3A"><p>Send messages when messaging
client requests </p> </li>
</ul> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Server address </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The hostname or IP address of the SMTP, IMAP4, or POP3 server. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Server port </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The TCP port of the SMTP, IMAP4, or POP3 server. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Size Limiting of emails </p> </entry>
<entry><p>If body text size limit is specified, then downloads the body text
of a email partially and downloads the attachments only if their size is less
than or equal to the specified attachment size limit. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>SMTP Account Override </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Allows the client to associate “SMTP Mobility Accounts” with an
SMTP account, to use when connected through specified internet access points. </p> <p>When
attempting to send an email using SMTP, the IAP that the connection to the
SMTP server is using is checked. If a SMTP mobility account is specified for
that IAP, then the settings for that SMTP mobility account is used to send
the email. If no SMTP mobility account is specified for that IAP, then the
settings from the SMTP account is used. </p> <p>Only settings relating to
the sending of emails are overridden – emails are constructed according to
the over-ridden SMTP account settings. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>SSL wrapper </p> </entry>
<entry><p>If enabled, a secure TLS connection is established on the specified
server port. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>TLS/SSL Domain </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the domain to use for certificate validation when establishing
a secure TLS connection. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Update flags </p> </entry>
<entry><p>If enabled, the seen flag is updated on the IMAP4 mailbox for messages
that have been read. This indicates to email applications on other devices
accessing the same mailbox that the message has already been read. </p> <p>Likewise,
if an email application on another device marks messages as read on the server,
then the messaging client indicates that the message has already been read. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Use APOP authentication </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies whether to use APOP authentication to login to the POP3
mailbox. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Use SMTP authentication </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies whether to use SMTP AUTHentication to login to the SMTP
server. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Supported </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
<entry><p>- </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p><b>SNAP Preferences</b> </p> <p>A allow Service Network Access
Point (SNAP) is a collection of access points (AP) that are used especially
for bearer mobility to identify a service network with a service to be accessed
on the network. That is, it is a collection of IAP that specify the same network
and the same service on that network. SNAP uses the underlying Networking
framework to select the best AP defined in the SNAP preference list to use
to establish the connection. </p> <p>The <xref href="GUID-9CAB9BE5-7233-3A01-A906-756177CF4460.dita"><apiname>CImIAPPreferences</apiname></xref> class
encapsulates preferences about IAPs for an email service. This class allows
a single SNAP to be specified as an alternative to a list of preferred IAPs.
A SNAP defines its own list of IAPs in preference order, and is reusable by
multiple clients that requires network connections. </p> <p>To allow SNAP
IDs to be defined, retrieved, and deleted when a network connection is made,
the following functions are provided by the <xref href="GUID-9CAB9BE5-7233-3A01-A906-756177CF4460.dita"><apiname>CImIAPPreferences</apiname></xref> class: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-89871675-D443-5343-8D3E-8E5C1A86AC99"><p> <xref href="GUID-F4D57A3E-BC3E-3DEA-B969-B656C5FD3B68.dita"><apiname>SNAPDefined()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2F171496-91D5-530E-9809-10FBFDCA4A38"><p> <xref href="GUID-C0AF460A-8DC8-3115-9AEC-A63FF4DB2067.dita"><apiname>SNAPPreference()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-AD0FC483-1646-5496-B2AD-6B643D1DBFE8"><p> <xref href="GUID-EBF66578-1CF1-3737-B78A-3A8D06A9CD16.dita"><apiname>SetSNAPL()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-05777751-5244-5778-824C-E3D8834D4CA1"><p> <xref href="GUID-B15A0120-1D4D-33B9-AC8F-2F94AF7B1EFD.dita"><apiname>RemoveSNAPL()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
</ul> <p><b>SMTP account override settings</b> </p> <p>The SMTP account override
functionality allows the messaging client to associate <b>SMTP mobility accounts</b> with
an SMTP account to use when connected through the specified Internet access
points. </p> <p>A SMTP mobility account allows different send settings to
be used by SMTP accounts depending on what access point is being used by the
SMTP connection. When a connection is made for a SMTP account, its associated
list of SMTP mobility accounts is examined to check, if any access point is
linked to the bearer type that is used for the connection. If any access point
is found, then the settings for the SMTP mobility account are used for the
connection and subsequent email sending in preference to the settings for
the SMTP account. </p> <p>To override the SMTP mobility account settings,
the following class are provided. These classes describe the settings that
are overridden when connecting to the mobility account through an IAP associated
with the mobility account. </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-37CE33BF-27F2-5C61-93D4-E339F9AE2F03"><p> <xref href="GUID-72BF08A4-2724-3F42-A685-F97F68133B69.dita"><apiname>TSmtpMobilityAccount</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-54F87DB8-07F3-511C-A986-EFDEFA41BA6E"><p> <xref href="GUID-AA86050B-00E4-3EEC-9E41-32C1A4493D30.dita"><apiname>CImSmtpMobilitySettings</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
</ul> <p><b>TLS or SSL domain name for certificate validation</b> </p> <p>To
enhance certification security checks, the <xref href="GUID-3EDD3DFA-AE8A-3941-960A-8BD2733E74C3.dita"><apiname>CImBaseEmailSettings</apiname></xref> class
is enhanced to allow the Transport Layer Security (TLS) or Secure Sockets
Layer (SSL) server domain name to be specified when creating email accounts.
The following functions are added to the <xref href="GUID-3EDD3DFA-AE8A-3941-960A-8BD2733E74C3.dita"><apiname>CImBaseEmailSettings</apiname></xref> class: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-120DA036-4153-552C-B712-8B593753EA8C"><p> <xref href="GUID-86633B7D-5AB8-3BBD-BB54-4697211AC86E.dita"><apiname>SetTlsSslDomainL()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DA875B46-D163-5397-A0D9-36D8732E872E"><p> <xref href="GUID-46A0BD1F-833E-3D55-B2C3-329770808AD2.dita"><apiname>TlsSslDomain()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>IAP preferences setting</title> <table id="GUID-CDE2AF8B-FCE2-5DA1-83FD-9D09A131CE30">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Tittle </entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>IAP Number </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The IAP identifier as specified in the CommDb record for the IAP. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Dialogue Preference </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The dialog preference determines whether a user must be prompted
with a dialog when connecting to the IAP. </p> <p>The available options are: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-78F25ED9-DB36-5854-892B-DE27F0BC8CA3"><p>Prompt </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DDF46C83-0F5F-52F1-9D50-5EF315D156B7"><p>Warn </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-967332AA-71AE-58D3-A4BC-69BEE8057843"><p>Do not prompt </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-CBC5B2FB-221B-5B00-8D78-8281635827B9"><p>Prompt if wrong mode </p> </li>
</ul> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
<example><title>Email settings example</title> <ul>
<li id="GUID-78EAF21A-8941-583E-861F-BADE2394A3B4"><p><xref href="GUID-D73AD200-BE4D-50BF-BCF9-14627DE530B7.dita">IMAP4
Example: An Email manager using IMAP4 and SMTP</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-742F921B-CBD7-538F-8EB2-D823AC45E3E4"><p><xref href="GUID-BB35DBCC-FE56-547F-BADA-9EF854691ADC.dita">POP3
Example: An Email manager using POP3 and SMTP</xref>  </p> </li>
</ul> </example>
</refbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-AD6587AD-A5B2-5369-9217-D752A37490C4.dita"><linktext>Bearer  
              Mobility</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-179099DA-1CD9-5912-B41B-363C132C7A86.dita"><linktext>Processing
Email in Chunks</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-4384066E-158A-5F63-A823-7793DAE680BF.dita"><linktext>Email</linktext>
</link>
</related-links></reference>