<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-19450648-4400-57A3-95FB-FC8AE73CD0A8" xml:lang="en"><title>How
to Shutdown the DNS Proxy Server</title><shortdesc>Describes how to shutdown the DNS Proxy server. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context id="GUID-56FFFC69-D14C-4B99-9BFB-AB4ACDD36953"><p>The DNS Proxy server shuts down with the DHCP server. If an IAP
is configured to shutdown the DHCP server, it shuts down the DHCP server which
in turn shuts down the DNS Proxy server. DNS Proxy server frees all its resources
and deletes all the host name entries present in the DNS local database before
shutdown. DNS Proxy server stops receiving DNS requests on the interface when
it is shutting down. </p> <p><note> DNS Proxy server supports handling of
multiple requests coming from a single interface and does not support receiving
DNS requests on multiple interfaces.</note> </p><p/><p>The high level steps
to shutdown the DNS Proxy server are shown here:  </p> </context>
<steps id="GUID-2E2295AD-39EE-57EC-BB8C-707303A00139">
<step id="GUID-9256B919-76FC-5551-8829-06CE069B52E0"><cmd>When the interface
configured to start the DHCP server shuts down, the DNS Proxy server also
shuts down. </cmd>
<info> Note: The DNS Proxy server frees all its resources, that is, deletes
the pending requests from its processing queue, stops all communication channels
and deletes all the host name entries present in the DNS local database before
shutdown. </info>
</step>
</steps>
<result id="GUID-3F9350B0-2E4C-464B-9AF1-857F1D178A86"><p>The DNS Proxy server is shutdown and deletes all the host name
entries present in the DNS local database. </p> </result>
</taskbody></task>