<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-51FB640F-AD0E-5A1A-80C3-D7AA53B31A21" xml:lang="en"><title>Comms
User Prompt Service</title><shortdesc> The Comms User Prompt Service (UPS) enables even unsigned applications
to access the network if user authorisation is provided. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>According to the platform model of Symbian platform any application connecting
to a network must have the <codeph>NetworkServices</codeph> capability. All
applications that have the <codeph>Networking service</codeph> capability
must be signed .</p>
<p>The target audience of this document are the licensees who write <xref href="GUID-F43A54C0-E82B-5790-8493-1372D214C642.dita#GUID-F43A54C0-E82B-5790-8493-1372D214C642/GUID-2372FF88-FA59-5CDF-9362-1A54F43D8442">MCPR</xref> plug-ins.
Symbian provides a <xref href="GUID-7BDC5FC0-15AD-56D3-BB64-C35F0C34A31F.dita">reference</xref> plug-in
for the licensees, which can be modified for customisation. The licensees
implementing the comms user prompt service must have knowledge of the Comms
Framework, for more information see <xref href="GUID-8F2D6AC8-8357-55C7-970B-CD2684BA9B04.dita">Communications
Framework</xref>. </p>
<section><title>User Prompt Service (UPS)</title> <p>Any application that
requires network access uses the <xref href="GUID-61E0CD76-A2E3-5066-84A8-146EECA8ADCD.dita">Socket
Server</xref> API using <xref href="GUID-BED8A733-2ED7-31AD-A911-C1F4707C67FD.dita"><apiname>RConnection</apiname></xref> or <xref href="GUID-D4F08503-F1EF-3531-9C3C-4AF24A6255F0.dita"><apiname>RSocket</apiname></xref>.
The platform security model checks the capability of the client application
to access the network. The comms user prompt service is used to notify the
user about the network access. The UPS feature enables applications without <codeph>NetworkServices</codeph> capability
to access the network if the user authorises the connection. </p> </section>
<section><title> User Prompt</title> <p>When comms UPS is implemented, the
user is requested to authorise a network connection, when an application opens
a new connection or when it attaches to an existing connection. The UPS prompts
the user when an application tries to send data through a socket which is
not explicitly associated with an authorised network connection. The IP network
user prompt is implemented as an MCPR plug-in. The plug-in will invoke the
UPS server. The UPS functionality can be <xref href="GUID-81238E98-755C-5E86-ADEA-6A675E058289.dita">configured</xref> by
the developers. </p> </section>
<section><title>Network Life Time</title> <p>When the comms user prompt service
component is configured for Network session life time, user responds to a
UPS dialog prompt by authorising the request with either '<codeph>Session
Yes</codeph>' or '<codeph>Always</codeph>' response. Any other applications
running in the same process of the user authorised application will be granted
the network access. The UPS response for a particular process is valid for
the duration of the network connection associated with the process. </p> </section>
<section><title>Session Life Time</title> <p>When the comms user prompt service
component is configured for Session life time, user responds to a UPS dialog
prompt by authorising the request with either '<codeph>Session Yes</codeph>'
or '<codeph>Always</codeph>' response. Any other applications running in the
same process of the user authorised session will be granted network access
for the duration of the process. </p> </section>
<section><title>User Prompt Service Server</title> <p>The UPS server generates
the user prompts and responds back to the MCPR with the user selection. The
dialog creator, a UPS plug-in, formats and streams the dialog box to the UPS
server. The UPS server interacts with the User Interface (UI) and responds
back to the MCPR. </p> <p>The UPS server is also responsible for checking
the policy files which has the details of the process and the available options. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>