<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-DDF4EA2E-59D6-5FE0-9C61-C5A9CBD8D4FE"><title>Multimedia Utility Library Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This document provides an overview of the Multimedia Utility Library component. </p> <section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The Multimedia Utility Library component provides shared utilities for multimedia and external components. This includes Content Access Framework (CAF) wrapper classes for accessing multimedia data that has restricted access. </p> </section> <section><title>Required background</title> <p>The <xref href="GUID-D6BB18FE-289D-546F-97DC-389B57B5B2E3.dita">Multimedia APIs and Frameworks Overview</xref> provides an introduction to the Multimedia Utility Library and related components. </p> </section> <section><title>Architectural relationships</title> <p>The Multimedia Utility Library component interacts with the following components: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-DE0BEA08-2B59-529E-86A5-70DF98FBA7CE"><p>Multimedia Framework </p> <p>MMF audio and video clients who wish to play DRM protected content. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-77EBE973-869E-5643-A39E-3470D45734C5"><p>Content Access Framework </p> <p>The CAF provides services that enable agents to access DRM protected content. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-7EE46FD9-DC9E-5C1F-9AC5-48F5212AF0CA.dita">Content Access Framework</xref>. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>API summary</title> <p>The Multimedia Utility Library component includes the following APIs: </p> <table id="GUID-908F8297-DBB3-54D7-8993-8FCAECEAE6D5"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><thead><row><entry>API</entry> <entry>Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <b>Multimedia Shared Library</b>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Shared utilities for DRM protected digital media. </p> <p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-AAAC7887-93A8-5F8D-98D4-44FAD26C228A.dita">Multimedia Shared Library Overview</xref>. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> <section><title>Typical uses</title> <p>The Multimedia Utility Library component is used for the following: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-92A95AAC-7002-5060-93EC-E6CCA39B3909"><p>Initialize DRM protected content for playing. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>See also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-D62A282E-9DEA-5EF3-A606-20647BC5049D.dita">Audio Client Overview</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-2DC80BA9-7AA2-5CD3-9105-1DE28CE196C1.dita">Video Client Overview</xref>  </p> </section> </conbody></concept>