<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-F43E458D-6650-5BB0-871D-2E4EB1353C48" xml:lang="en"><title>Application
Services</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-8BD6CF61-80B6-5869-AB85-F572C590DB30"><title>Alarm Server</title> <p>The
AlarmServer is used to set alarms such as clock or calendar applications.
The Alarm Server manages a queue of alarms and notifies the user in conjunction
with other Application Framework components. </p> <p>The AlarmServer maintains
the queue of all system-wide alarms, this is known as Alarm handling. Session
alarms are for a single session only and are completed when an alarm expires.
Non session alarms occur if a session orphans its alarm by closing its connection
to the AlarmServer. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-32519F1C-429A-59C9-B945-D0B1F81A0AA5"><title>Calendar Conversion</title> <p>For
applications that require Chinese date support calcon is a calendar conversion
utility which provides conversion between Gregorian and Chinese Lunar calendar
dates. The conversion is restricted to date conversion – time conversion is
not supported. Corrections have been applied where Chinese lunar days are
deemed to start at times other than midnight. </p> <p>Julian dates are used
for internal storage. A Julian date is a count of days from a point in time
(defined as noon 24/11/4713 BC). Chinese Lunar calendar dates consist of: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-9BA022D5-64C2-5D36-AD11-844183EBDA23"><p>Year cycle </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9EFCC4A8-EF82-541D-B0A3-792CD1CD3144"><p>Year (1-60) </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B3F2059F-4CAF-54B2-B897-673C0125D8CD"><p>Month (1-12) </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-85762B70-2F4E-55CE-A25C-C1E72114E306"><p>Whether or not the month
is a leap month </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-4727C645-CAED-5081-8E9B-22369EA7668E"><p>Day in the month (1-29
or 1-30 in a leap month) </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-6EB921E1-0048-5388-8983-87172763FAB3"><title>Help Model</title> <p>Hlpmodel
enables the user to search for specific information on a help database. Help
databases contain rich text formatted data (including pictures) and metadata
used to identify help information for searching. </p> <p>The help launcher
is a small DLL that allows the device-specific help application to be launched
with a context sensitive identifier, so that a suitable help topic is displayed
within the help application. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-D30706E5-7191-5349-A883-C200B73AFED1"><title>Time Zone Server</title> <p>Time
Zone Server provides functionality to convert between UTC times and local
“wall-clock” times. It allows for Daylight Savings Time (DST) rules and adjusts
local times accordingly. This functionality applies to both the current locale
and other specified locales. It also applies to any time, historical or future
(within a given range) at the specified locale </p> <p>The application allows
time conversion between UTC and local “wall-clock” time and automatic clock
adjustment for daylight saving. </p> <p>The Time Zone Compiler creates a Time
Zone Database for Symbian OS from the Olson Tz database, which provides a
collaborative compilation of information about the world's time zones. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-4268D6AA-F468-5461-88A2-D6852D4AC69A"><title>Time Zone Localization</title> <p> The
Time Zone Localization component provides localisation support for time zone
names. The component makes use of the standard Symbian OS resource framework
for loading localizable strings. This allows licensees to provide localized
time zone and city name strings for target markets. </p> <p>Localizable text
includes: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-BEE1FDE0-3E2E-5F0F-82E0-C04711D6C4F2"><p>Time zone ID, generated
by the TzCompiler </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C902710F-2EC0-5AD1-B3D4-FA9C7545A8C2"><p>Time zone standard name </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-31AAE78F-92C2-5794-BA55-575C118BFE41"><p>Time zone daylight savings
name </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-83B70D72-3F92-5316-B5BB-735AC0514E78"><p>Time zone short standard
name </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-60C26CE2-26A9-5617-8A93-BDD02DB24B9C"><p>Time zone short daylight
savings name </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-9DFB0954-9CDF-5DAF-BA7A-54A1D64833F7"><title>Versit</title> <p>The
Versit component provides a set of classes that can be used by application
or system developers to import and export data. The data is formatted according
to a set of standards initially defined by the Versit consortium. </p> <p>The
plain-text formatted data can be included in emails, saved to disk or transferred
from one application to another using streams. Two specifications have been
published: vCard for the transmission of contact information and vCal for
the transmission of calendaring information. </p> <p>Although the information
contained in contact data is different from that contained in calendar data,
the basic formatting of the information follows the same style. It is this
formatting style that has had a strong influence on the functional requirements
of the Versit component. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>