<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-A5ED089C-8831-5E25-AE7C-8E6F1C21D3BE" xml:lang="en"><title>Writing
a CSBEClient for Restore</title><shortdesc>This section describes the recommended <codeph>conn::CSBEClient</codeph> function
calls for a partial and incremental restore. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-8D835F01-211A-4358-9751-F913E3E04727"><title>Context</title> <p>A partial restore restores the data of
specified data owners. The Security IDs (SIDs) of the specified data owners
must be passed to the Backup Engine. </p> <p>An incremental restore restores
files that are saved in the previous incremental backup. After each incremental
backup, a snapshot, which saves the file list and details of each data owner,
is saved. Before each incremental restore, the previously saved backup snapshots
must be provided to the Backup Engine. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-FAF6DC1F-C569-5573-9503-EC65FF9C94E1"><title>Steps</title><ol id="GUID-5CF38BF0-1174-575C-929E-64C260260C0C">
<li id="GUID-AA22D309-4E70-527F-8B97-B18423E7A8CC"><p>The user application
must instantiate <xref href="GUID-169BB4E2-5B0E-3719-A7B8-A3C0AAA602E2.dita#GUID-169BB4E2-5B0E-3719-A7B8-A3C0AAA602E2/GUID-FB671D02-0F15-396F-9FB7-EE3E9372093C"><apiname>conn::CSBEClient</apiname></xref> to connect to the Backup
Engine. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-01B82F51-F453-5042-B77D-3AF1BC046A5F" xml:space="preserve">iRestoreClient = CSBEClient::NewL();</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-4DC27B19-1573-520F-98E7-FA77F524EEC1"><p>Supply the list of data
owners got from the host PC to the Backup Engine. </p> <p>To restore the data
of specified data owners, pass the array of the SID of these data owners to
the Backup Engine. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-5F0F4CE6-AC01-5248-B9D5-BF15A3F7E38A" xml:space="preserve">iRestoreClient-&gt;SetSIDListForPartialBURL(RSIDArray&amp; aSIDs);</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-1A91A122-BB2D-590F-8D3C-74BCA5100ABC"><p>Set the Back Engine
to the restore mode which signals the start of a restore. </p> <p>The Backup
Engine then <xref href="GUID-88A5F321-17BA-566B-B025-22DB11664E54.dita">publishes
the mode to the subscribed data owners</xref>. This gives the data owners
some time to prepare for the restore, for example they can release resources
in case of file lock or data conflict. </p> <p>The mode contains the restore
types: full or partial, base or incremental. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-223EE0DD-DBD2-543C-9917-CD4DB938154E" xml:space="preserve">iRestoreClient-&gt;SetBURModeL (
                              const TDriveList&amp; aDriveList,
                             
                              //Specify partial restore,
                              //defined in epoc32/include/connect/sbdefs.h
                              TBURPartType aBURType,      

                              //Specifiy incremental restore,
                              //defined in epoc32/include/connect/sbdefs.h
                              TBackupIncType aBackupIncType
                            );
</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-7F3051A3-BD5C-591A-ABCE-74DED46E9E3D"><p>Supply system files
to the Backup Engine for restore. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-8E1098CB-B432-51CE-8D80-292B6E185A70" xml:space="preserve">iRestoreClient -&gt;SupplyDataL(
                              CSBGenericTransferType&amp; aGenericTransferType,
                              TBool aFinished
                             );</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-89F6E682-8B16-5B83-A791-52BE036EBC89"><p>Signal that all system
files have been restored. </p> <p>This step must be invoked to ensure that
system files have been released for data owners to use. It triggers the Backup
Engine to start data owners for the restore. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-9F669D8B-3BFB-5EB2-A4A3-456B2F75DC4E" xml:space="preserve">iRestoreClient-&gt;AllSystemFilesRestored();</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-7BCA299B-803F-5C10-B9FB-4833983B0619"><p>Request the state of
active data owners. </p> <p>This step ensures that the data owners are ready
to supply the data, for example file locks are released. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-80A8205B-5B54-5986-A285-F185587573E6" xml:space="preserve">iRestoreClient-&gt;SIDStatusL(RSIDStatusArray&amp; aSIDStatus);</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-113A8BCF-B055-51A7-B54B-AF1A8FA57A21"><p>Supply passive private
data and its snapshot to the Backup Engine for restore. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-32C548A1-A04D-5470-B6BF-72B994183DFB" xml:space="preserve">iRestoreClient-&gt;SupplyDataL(
                             CSBGenericTransferType&amp; aGenericTransferType,
                             TBool aFinished
                            );</codeblock> <p> <b>Note</b>: For more information
about creating snapshot transfer types, refer to the <xref href="GUID-8BFC185E-91FD-5E04-A26C-728B06F31FDD-GENID-1-12-1-28-1-1-4-1-3-1-6-1-6-1.dita">Creating
transfer types</xref> section. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C5ED3083-8876-59CB-8D3C-CB404F1CCC71"><p>The backup server restores
the public files. </p> <p>Similar to a backup, the Backup Engine does not
restore public files. Device creators must get the public files from the host
PC and restore them to the device in their backup server implementations. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2BE0338B-6C06-5159-A3F1-4B8B85E56048"><p>Supply active private
data to the Backup Engine for restore. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-9CC18592-E7F6-517B-8937-4E06A2EC1E80" xml:space="preserve">iRestoreClient-&gt;SupplyDataL(
                             CSBGenericTransferType&amp; aGenericTransferType,
                             TBool aFinished
                            );</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-04CC0D4A-F4C1-5515-ABA3-9D746309455D"><p>Set the Backup Engine
into the normal mode. </p> <p>After the data is restored on the device, set
the Backup Engine to the normal mode. The subscribed data owners respond to
the signal and resume the state before the backup. For example resume file
locks or a GUI application recovers to the state and view prior to the restore. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-DA11715F-2F70-5AA8-978E-982B2C857E37" xml:space="preserve">iRestoreClient-&gt;SetBURModeL(
                             const TDriveList&amp; aDriveList,
                             TBURPartType aBURType,
                             TBackupIncType aBackupIncType
                            );</codeblock> </li>
</ol> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-0BD22FDB-1A5C-56AA-A7FC-BD2271B2F928.dita"><linktext>Writing a
Backup Engine Client (CSBEClient)</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>