<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-70B9796F-8CF3-5DC4-93B4-0B1FED936169" xml:lang="en"><title>UI
Data MTM implementation</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p> <b>Note:</b> This example is designed to work with Techview and there
is no guarantee that it will work on other interfaces </p>
<p>The <filepath>txti</filepath> project demonstrates a UI Data MTM. The central
class is <codeph>CTxtiMtmUiData</codeph>, derived from the User Interface
MTM base class <codeph>CBaseMtmUiData</codeph>. </p>
<p> <filepath>txti</filepath> implements the following MTM functionality: </p>
<section id="GUID-D230F67C-8D31-41A6-B298-0AF0DC45A130"><title>Example Code</title> <p>Click on the following link to download
the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-419758e4-b663-48d3-bf21-d9c4bb00da23.zip" scope="external">TextMTM.zip</xref>  </p><p>Click: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-419758e4-b663-48d3-bf21-d9c4bb00da23.html" scope="peer">browse</xref> to view the example code. </p> <p>The files reproduced
here are the main files contained in the examples directory. Some extra files
may be needed to run the examples, and these will be found in the appropriate
examples directory. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-F62B8A55-BBFF-4B09-92AB-DB6BECAEDE7F"><title>Class summary</title><p><xref href="GUID-899C6D87-5712-34A7-902C-EA452894700C.dita"><apiname>CBaseMtmUiData</apiname></xref></p></section>
<section id="GUID-2149EB45-BDA8-41EE-887D-69A3439DF2E1"><title>Icons</title> <p>Icons are provided for messages, folders,
and services, for use in the message browser. They are built into a Symbian
platform multi-bitmap file <filepath>txti.mbm</filepath>. <codeph>ContextIcon()</codeph> selects
the correct icon depending on the entry context. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-3D7F8936-7D6B-450C-BF8F-88E8ACF356F0"><title>MTM-specific operations</title> <p>Menu specifications for
the two MTM-specific operations, Refresh and Export text to file, are provided
in the resource <codeph>r_textud_function_array</codeph>. <codeph>OperationSupportedL()</codeph> determines
whether these operations are appropriate to the entry context. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-8C741A4E-6CB9-498C-89F5-C288010444DD"><title>Context-specific information (Can&lt;Operation&gt; functions)</title> <p>Implementations
of these functions check that that the specific operation is available and
appropriate to the context. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>