<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-88E89E94-7C9E-5583-827C-84FADD50F97E" xml:lang="en"><title>Modifying
your current setup for ethernet</title><shortdesc>Set up ethernet to incorporate ethernet with comms database settings.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>You can also use the <xref href="GUID-3C6935E1-66C9-5115-901E-D3B1D0C2E783.dita">Quick
ethernet configuration</xref>. </p>
<ol id="GUID-F0D337D1-1E90-5FB9-B1BC-676042F792C7">
<li id="GUID-3C2F7DF5-62C6-5B4E-8B66-CCAE76BBE96A"><p> <xref href="GUID-CDD1E761-6B28-5F69-BBEF-756DF45E59A2.dita">Install
WinPcap</xref>  </p> <p> <i>WinPcap</i> is used by Symbian platform to send
and receive ethernet frames to Windows OS. We recommend version 4.0 of this
program </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7D079E8F-BDFC-5E96-959D-2DA53DFDB294"><p>Edit your current comms
database as described in the following section. The <i>CED</i>, <i>CEDDUMP</i> and
tools should be used to securely modify comms database entries; see Comms
database configuration tools. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9730B75A-0278-5D8E-BA95-DB123691E70A"><p>Run the <xref href="GUID-7B114A67-356A-5FCE-B57B-761F5477A2B2.dita">Configchange.pl</xref> script. </p> </li>
</ol>
<section id="GUID-21ED581C-3623-4BC9-A00F-A7D46C1AC59C"><title>Editing comms
database settings for Ethernet</title> <p>Symbian platform stores many communication
settings in its communications database. This database is used both in the
emulator and real devices. It is primarily used by the communication subsystems
within Symbian platform. </p> <p>The comms database is made up of a number
of tables. Several tables are required to connect the emulator to the Internet
via ethernet. </p> <p>Edit your current comms database as described below.
The <i>CED</i> and <i>CEDDUMP</i> tools should be used to securely modify
comms database entries; see Comms database configuration tools. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-191C55A1-B55C-4311-B956-C3AF2957A69F"><title>LAN Bearer table</title><p>The LAN bearer table contains information
about physical connections to networks. The start of the LAN bearer table
is indicated by the text <codeph>[LANBearer]</codeph>. It may be followed
by a number of connections. One may be suitable for the emulator, otherwise
add a new connection in a new <codeph>ADD_SECTION...END_ADD</codeph> section. </p> <p>If
you are using Symbian platform with the EKA1 kernel then there should be a
connection like the one below: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-DF5AB7B9-2D29-52C7-97F5-4EE568422901" xml:space="preserve">ADD_SECTION
    Name=EKA1 Emulator Ethernet
    Agent=nullagt.agt
    IfName=ethint
    LDDFilename=ethercard
    LDDName=Ethercard
    PDDFilename=etherwins
    PDDName=Ethercard.wins
    PacketDriverName=EtherPkt.drv
    LastSocketActivityTimeout=-1
    LastSessionClosedTimeout=-1
    LastSocketClosedTimeout=-1
    FIELD_COUNT=11
END_ADD</codeblock> <p>If you are using EKA2 kernel then there should be a
connection like this: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-AE57D4FA-90FE-5A74-BB85-0B7DB2398280" xml:space="preserve">ADD_SECTION
    Name=EKA2 Emulator Ethernet
    Agent=nullagt.agt
    IfName=ethint
    LDDFilename=enet
    LDDName==Ethernet
    PDDFilename=ethernet
    PDDName=Ethernet.Wins
    PacketDriverName=EtherPkt.drv
    LastSocketActivityTimeout=-1
    LastSessionClosedTimeout=-1
    LastSocketClosedTimeout=-1
    FIELD_COUNT=11
END_ADD</codeblock> <p>The Symbian platform version number will tell you which
kernel you are using. Version 7 or less indicates EKA1. Versions 8.0 and 8.1
are written with a letter after them. An '<i>a</i>' indicates EKA1 and a '<i>b</i>'
indicates EKA2. Versions 9.0 and later are EKA2. The version number is commonly
available in <filepath>/epoc32/data/BuildInfo.txt</filepath>. </p></section>
<section id="GUID-07D8E6DB-8E5A-4D24-B404-16D470B422F6"><title>LAN Service table</title><p>The LAN Service table contains
address information. The start of the LAN service table is indicated by the
text <codeph>[LANService]</codeph>. This may be followed by address information
for one or more networks. You will need information for each network to which
you want to connect. </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-0B6C8959-BDA2-5D5F-84C9-DA93BFD677F3"><p> <b>Ethernet with dynamic
IP address</b>  </p> <p>Use this when your network uses DHCP. It allows the
network to automatically allocate an IP address for the emulator every time
it connects. Your network administrator will tell you whether you can use
DHCP. </p> <p>In the <codeph>[LANService]</codeph> table, make sure there
is a <codeph>ADD_SECTION...END_ADD</codeph> section in the table identical
to the following. In particular, set the <codeph>IpAddrFromServer</codeph> and <codeph>IpDNSAddrFromServer</codeph> fields
to <codeph>TRUE</codeph>, and set the two <codeph>ConfigDaemon</codeph> fields
as shown in the following: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-F3D835BE-796B-5422-9072-299409D030A9" xml:space="preserve">ADD_SECTION
    Name=Ethernet using DCHP
    IfNetworks=ip
    IpNetMask=
    IpGateway=
    IpAddrFromServer=TRUE
    IpAddr=
    IpDNSAddrFromServer=TRUE
    IpNameServer1=
    IpNameServer2=
    ConfigDaemonManagerName=NetCfgExtnDhcp
    ConfigDaemonName=DhcpServ
    FIELD_COUNT=11
END_ADD</codeblock> <p>Note: before v9.0, the value of <codeph>ConfigDaemonManagerName</codeph> was <codeph>ConfigDaemonManager</codeph>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0DA3C4DC-4951-59A1-9D23-3FABEC3D93DC"><p> <b>Ethernet with static
IP address on networks without DHCP</b>  </p> <p>This describes how to set
all your network settings manually. This will be necessary on networks that
do not use DHCP. If your network uses DHCP then you can still set your settings
manually if you wish. </p> <p>In the <codeph>[LANService]</codeph> table,
make sure there is a <codeph>ADD_SECTION...END_ADD</codeph> section in the
table similar to the one below: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-5FE2A935-0F33-5223-ABB2-6D2A4540F81E"><p>Set the <codeph>IpAddrFromServer</codeph> and <codeph>IpDNSAddrFromServer</codeph> fields
to <codeph>FALSE</codeph>, and leave the two <codeph>ConfigDaemon</codeph> fields
empty </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-55441AA2-8F31-5A81-8580-A5414E87D4E2"><p>Set the fields in the
following table to suitable values: </p> <table id="GUID-AE300CB8-55DC-5A20-8E1C-E2F7B7A8586B">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Field</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>IpAddr </p> </entry>
<entry><p>IP address </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>IpNetMask </p> </entry>
<entry><p>IP subnet mask </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>IpGateway </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Gateway IP address </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>IpNameServer1 and IpNameServer2 </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Primary and secondary DNS server addresses </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>Your network administrator may be able to supply you with an IP
address. It must be in the same range of addresses as the other computers
on the network, and it must not be in use already. </p> <p>For the other parameters,
you can normally use the same values that Windows uses on your PC. To show
Window's configuration, type the following from a command prompt: </p> <p><userinput>ipconfig
/all</userinput> </p> </li>
</ul> <p>Here is an example table: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-F2B36B36-09F9-5B5C-BEC5-BE29E7A39EBA" xml:space="preserve">ADD_SECTION
    Name=Ethernet Static IP
    IfNetworks=ip
    IpNetMask=255.255.255.0
    IpGateway=10.23.162.254
    IpAddrFromServer=FALSE
    IpAddr=10.23.162.200
    IpDNSAddrFromServer=FALSE
    IpNameServer1=10.16.59.515
    IpNameServer2=10.23.58.12
    ConfigDaemonManagerName=
    ConfigDaemonName=
    FIELD_COUNT=11
END_ADD</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-C32365C7-E4E9-5FE1-8AA8-7A6515C50ACD"><p> <b>Ethernet with static
IP address on DHCP networks</b>  </p> <p>This describes how to choose your
own IP address, but to set all the other network settings (subnet mask, gateway
and DNS servers) automatically when you connect. Your network must use DHCP
for this. </p> <p> <note> Some DHCP servers do not support this configuration.
Before using it, please ensure that your network's DHCP server supports the
'<i>INFORM</i>' message. </note></p>In the <codeph>[LANService]</codeph> table,
make sure there is a <codeph>ADD_SECTION...END_ADD</codeph> section in the
table similar to the one in the following: <ul>
<li id="GUID-3B0120F9-63F0-5759-9673-B56C87B2C06E"><p>Set the <codeph>IpDNSAddrFromServer</codeph> fields
to <codeph>FALSE</codeph> and set the two <codeph>ConfigDaemon</codeph> fields
as shown in the example below </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A7F1091C-E88F-51A0-B3D6-795DCEC5351B"><p>Set the <codeph>IpAddrFromServer</codeph> to <codeph>TRUE</codeph> and
set <codeph>IpAddr</codeph> to an IP address for the emulator. Your network
administrator may be able to supply you with an IP address. It must be in
the same range of addresses as the other computers on the network, and it
must not be in use already. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>Here is an example table: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-374BD714-F158-52E8-BCDB-FCC5A46E8D52" xml:space="preserve">ADD_SECTION
    Name=Ethernet Static IP
    IfNetworks=ip
    IpNetMask=
    IpGateway=
    IpAddrFromServer=FALSE
    IpAddr=192.168.20.13
    IpDNSAddrFromServer=TRUE
    IpNameServer1=
    IpNameServer2=
    ConfigDaemonManagerName=NetCfgExtnDhcp
    ConfigDaemonName=DhcpServ
    FIELD_COUNT=11
END_ADD</codeblock> <p>Note: before v9.0, the value of <codeph>ConfigDaemonManagerName</codeph> was <codeph>ConfigDaemonManager</codeph>. </p> </li>
</ul></section>
<section id="GUID-E46108D2-03E9-4B6C-A004-61A0A983EFE8"><title>Internet Access Point table</title><p>In the previous two
sections you created a physical connection in the <codeph>[LANBearer]</codeph> table
for either the EKA1 or EKA2 kernel, and you created your network's address
information in the LAN Service table. Now you must link the two together in
an <i>Internet Access Point (IAP)</i>. The combination of the two is all the
emulator needs to connect to the network. </p> <p>The IAP table defines a
number of IAPs. You must ensure that there is one suitable for the emulator
on your network. The start of the IAP table is indicated by the text <codeph>[IAP]</codeph>.
After this there will be a number of sections defining IAPs. If there is not
a suitable IAP already then you must create one similar to the following: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-66CD685D-1193-54C8-85EC-9EED9E56E54F" xml:space="preserve">[IAP]
ADD_SECTION
       Name=Emulator Lan IAP
       IAPService=2
       IAPServiceType=LANService
       IAPBearer=4
       IAPBearerType=LANBearer
       IAPNetwork=1
       IAPNetworkWeighting=0
       Location=1
       FIELD_COUNT=8
END_ADD</codeblock> <p>In each IAP, the <codeph>IAPBearer</codeph> and <codeph>IAPService</codeph> parameters
define the sections to link. You need to enter a number in each of these fields: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-CFB52AF7-B05E-5D5B-A8C2-CBB22F9B3B95"><p>Go to the LAN Service
table and find the address information for your network. It will be in an <codeph>ADD_SECTION...END_ADD</codeph> table
entry. Count the number of table entries from the beginning of the table until
you reach your entry. Enter this number in the IAP's <codeph>IAPService</codeph> field. </p> <p>Note:
the first entry in the table is number one, not zero. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C7F2A24B-3491-59A5-8BCE-F430F9A1F74D"><p>Repeat the same for
your network connection in the <codeph>[LANBearer]</codeph> table, entering
the number into the <codeph>IAPBearer</codeph> field of the IAP. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>The example above links the second network address section in the
LAN Service table with the fourth physical connection in the <codeph>[LANBearer]</codeph> table. </p> <p>Copy
the rest of the fields as shown above. </p></section>
<section id="GUID-A1AF1DD2-C20E-4301-A210-307CAB47A41F"><title>Connection Preferences table</title><p>The Internet Access
Point (IAP) table defines a number of method to connect to networks and the
Internet. When a phone or the emulator wants to connect to a network, the
Connection Preferences table defines how a IAP is chosen. </p> <p>The start
of the connection preferences table is indicated by the text <codeph>[ConnectionPreferences]</codeph>.
After this there will be a number of sections defining your preferences. </p> <p>You
have two options: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-1D0F662E-B4F3-57FE-8FA2-EED2E8F1ADFB"><p> <b>Ask which IAP to
use each time you connect</b>  </p> <p>If the table contains a section like
the one below then Symbian platform will ask you to choose an IAP before it
connects. A dialog box will be displayed allowing you to make your choice.
This is useful if you often connect to more than one network. </p> <p>You
can ignore the <codeph>BearerSet</codeph> and <codeph>IAP</codeph> fields,
but you must copy the others as shown: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-B9C41F22-30C6-5F11-831B-6F0C97179C1D" xml:space="preserve">ADD_SECTION
    Ranking=1
    Direction=OUTGOING
    DialogPref=PROMPT
    BearerSet=LAN
    IAP=1
    FIELD_COUNT=5
END_ADD</codeblock> <p>Note the <codeph>Ranking=1</codeph> field. This indicates
that this is the highest priority connection preference. </p> <p>Any sections
with <codeph>Ranking=0</codeph> are ignored. Think of setting <codeph>Ranking=0</codeph> as
'commenting out' a connection preference. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2F7DFB97-C0A6-563B-B41D-9337749C9525"><p> <b>Always connect with
the same IAP</b> <b>Define the IAP to use</b>  </p> <p>You can define the
default IAP in the connection preferences table. When Symbian platform wants
to connect, it always uses the IAP that you define here. No dialog box will
appear on screen and you will not be able to choose an IAP before you connect. </p> <p>This
is useful when you always connect to the same network. </p> <p>Add a section
to the table like this: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-5DA76D4E-7305-5EFD-AD85-928B241C0BC0" xml:space="preserve">ADD_SECTION
    Ranking=1
    Direction=OUTGOING
    DialogPref=DONOTPROMPT
    BearerSet=LAN
    IAP=1
    FIELD_COUNT=5
END_ADD</codeblock> <p>where the <codeph>IAP</codeph> field must be set to
the desired IAP number. In this example we connect to the first IAP, which
is the first <codeph>ADD_SECTION...END_ADD</codeph> after the text <codeph>[IAP]</codeph>.
Copy the other fields as shown. </p> <p>You can specify a second, backup connection
preference. If the first connection attempt fails then the backup connection
is tried. Define a backup connection in a section similar to the following: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-7BBEE6A6-F723-56B1-A54E-8FC2C3E30469" xml:space="preserve">ADD_SECTION
    Ranking=2
    Direction=OUTGOING
    DialogPref=DONOTPROMPT
    BearerSet=LAN
    IAP=3
    FIELD_COUNT=5
END_ADD</codeblock> <p>Note the <codeph>Ranking=2</codeph> field. This indicates
that this is the second highest priority connection preference after the section
with <codeph>Ranking=1</codeph>. Any sections with <codeph>Ranking=0</codeph> are
ignored by Symbian platform. </p> </li>
</ul></section>
</conbody></concept>