<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-436B6DFE-D279-44BF-B099-B2547D50610A" xml:lang="en"><title>Write
a resource file</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context>       <p>Each converter DLL requires an associated information file.
This file allows the converter architecture to read the properties of the
converters in the DLL without having to load the DLL itself.</p><p>The following
information is written to a resource file:</p><ul>
<li><p>A single <codeph>CONARC_RESOURCE_FILE</codeph> resource which contains
an array of <codeph>CONVERTER_DATA</codeph> resources.</p></li>
<li><p>Each <codeph>CONVERTER_DATA</codeph> resource describes the properties
of a single converter. It specifies the UID of the converter, an array of
MIME resources describing the data types from which the converter can convert
and another array of MIME resources describing the data types to which the
converter can convert.</p></li>
<li><p>Each MIME resource specifies the supported MIME type. For example,
text/html, and an array of <codeph>LANG_DATA</codeph> resources giving localized
human-readable names for that MIME type.</p></li>
<li><p>Each <codeph>LANG_DATA</codeph> resource specifies a language ID and
a human-readable name for the MIME type in that language. </p></li>
</ul><p><b>NOTE</b>: The resource file is included within a <codeph>start
resource ...</codeph> end block in the project file. Its target path must
be<filepath>\resource\convert\</filepath>.</p><p>The following example is
an information file for a converter DLL that contains one converter:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">#include &lt;conplugin.rh&gt;
#include "ExampleConv.hrh"
RESOURCE CONARC_RESOURCE_FILE
    {
    converter_list =
        {
        CONVERTER_DATA
            {
            conv_uid = KExampleConvImplementationUid; // UID of the converter, as returned by CConverterBase2::Uid()
            from_list =
                {
                MIME
                    {
                    type = "example/qp";
                    lang_list =
                        {
                        // lang_id is a value from the TLanguage enumeration. 01 is English.
                        LANG_DATA{lang_id=01;translation="quoted-printable";
                        }
                    };
                }
            };
        to_list =
            {
            MIME
                {
                type = "example/text";
                lang_list =
                    {
                    LANG_DATA
                        {
                        lang_id = 01;
                        translation = "text";
                        };
                    }
                };
            }
        };
    }</codeblock></context>
</taskbody></task>