<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-F27F49B3-4AC1-5517-AF3A-1ADBA1E87A0B" xml:lang="en"><title>Command
Line Kernel Trace Tool Overview </title><shortdesc>This document provides an overview of the command line kernel trace
tool. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-28A5B22E-9224-4BDB-B088-3C42BA8A02AC"><title>Purpose</title> <p>The
command line kernel trace tool is a command line tool for extracting trace
data from a device. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-94D37412-0385-4C4F-82C9-5F8D33D284A0"><title>Intended audience</title><p>This document is intended to be
used by Symbian platform licensees and third party application developers. </p></section>
<section id="GUID-F35082F1-6B0B-4FAF-A908-9E5474EB6924"><title>Command line Kernel Trace tool library details</title> <p>The
DLL that provides the functionality and the library to which your code must
link is identified below. </p> <table id="GUID-F6057DA5-BDA5-5C56-A0E2-491D423E160D">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>DLL</entry>
<entry>LIB</entry>
<entry>Short Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <filepath>btrace.exe</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>None </p> </entry>
<entry><p>A command line tool to extract trace data. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section id="GUID-6DC6CD17-FAA1-49AF-B28D-419469A4643B"><title>Architectural
relationship</title> <p>The command line kernel trace tool is a command line
interface to the traces generated by the BTrace framework. It uses an <xref href="GUID-9E859841-E8A3-37D5-9A19-BCAA3C700922.dita"><apiname>RBTrace</apiname></xref> object
to create and extract trace data. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-32C8CFD0-EBD4-44D2-8940-86267953DB56"><title>Description</title><p>The command line kernel trace tool writes
trace data to a file or port. </p></section>
<section id="GUID-4963E2DE-DC20-4A83-97A5-E8CD40AD71EC"><title>Writing data to a file or port</title><p>You write trace data
to a file or port as explained in the <xref href="GUID-9E0957A1-0691-5741-ABCA-3EA61B4AC0CD.dita">Kernel
Trace Tool Tutorial</xref>. </p></section>
<section id="GUID-4E816829-3357-447B-8E63-2CE6B6F360FC"><title>Key command
line Kernel Trace tool classes</title> <p>The command line kernel trace tool
uses the classes of BTraceC and does not contain any classes of its own. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-287D02E0-5700-4775-BDA5-FD6DAA8CEEAD"><title>Using command
line Kernel Trace tool</title> <p>The command line kernel trace tool is a
command line tool. You access it from the command line of an emulator: the
commands are explained in <xref href="GUID-9E0957A1-0691-5741-ABCA-3EA61B4AC0CD.dita">Command
Line Kernel Trace Tool Tutorial</xref>. You use it to output trace data to
a file or port of your choosing to analyze in whatever way suits you. </p> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-7EA3FAD3-9A41-5B2D-8F46-8C8965CE8B97.dita"><linktext>BTraceX Overview</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-7B477BA5-CC5B-56A2-82BC-E1BC0049FECB.dita"><linktext>BTraceC Overview</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-55C05441-33B5-5057-971D-4200345E941E.dita"><linktext>BTraceC Tutorial</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-9E0957A1-0691-5741-ABCA-3EA61B4AC0CD.dita"><linktext>Command Line
Kernel Trace Tool                 Tutorial</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-5CEA46BA-5AA2-51B4-8BBA-5B6EF141D68A.dita"><linktext> Reading
Kernel Trace Data                 From Chunks Tutorial</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-7195C3C2-6DF4-56DE-B3C7-00CC10A22AD2.dita"><linktext>Writing Trace
Data to                 Buffers Tutorial</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-625A116D-185D-57A3-9FB7-B8257F4AB1B2.dita"><linktext> Setting
Trace Filters                 Tutorial</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-2341CFE1-1CDF-537A-99FB-78C59FFA30CE.dita"><linktext> Requesting
Data                 Notification Tutorial</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>