<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-7514DD31-E82B-49FD-916F-A9DF12D97204" xml:lang="en"><title>URI
List pre-configuration DTD</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The DTD of URI List pre-configuration and a description of each element
is given below. </p>
<codeblock id="GUID-67F71BCC-0F66-54C9-AFB1-D3107A0D5751" xml:space="preserve">&lt;!--
Uri List pre-configuration Document Type Definition.

Copyright Symbian Software Pvt Ltd 2007. All rights reserved.  
--&gt;

&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?&gt;
&lt;!ELEMENT URIList (WAPPush, Browser, PushEMail, DevPro)&gt; 
&lt;!ELEMENT WAPPush (Whitelist, Blacklist)&gt;
&lt;!ELEMENT Browser (Whitelist, Blacklist)&gt;
&lt;!ELEMENT PushEMail (Whitelist, Blacklist)&gt;
&lt;!ELEMENT DevPro (Whitelist, Blacklist)&gt;
&lt;!ELEMENT Whitelist (Record)&gt;
&lt;!ELEMENT Blacklist (Record)&gt;
&lt;!ELEMENT Record ( Uri, Permission, FavouriteName)&gt;
&lt;!ELEMENT Uri (#PCDATA)&gt;
&lt;!ELEMENT Permission (#PCDATA)&gt;
&lt;!ELEMENT FavouriteName (#PCDATA)&gt;
</codeblock>
<section id="GUID-9C0AF039-8B09-4CCA-8D49-80710F86801A"><title>ELEMENT &lt;URIList&gt;</title><table rowheader="firstcol" id="GUID-D5A47A13-9D5A-41E4-BFAA-92183DE99D48">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.50*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.50*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Element</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;!ELEMENT URIList (WapPush, Browser, PushEMail, DevPro)&gt;</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Semantics</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;URIList&gt; is the root element. It should contain at least one
of &lt;WapPush&gt;, &lt;Browser&gt;, &lt;PushEMail&gt;, or &lt;DevPro&gt; elements mandatorily.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section id="GUID-648CEFB8-1C62-4F51-A3E0-BC224D350825"><title>ELEMENT &lt;WapPush&gt;</title><table rowheader="firstcol" id="GUID-87911539-2AD8-40A9-88D8-2C217F4AB5A1">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.50*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.50*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Element</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;!ELEMENT WAPPush (Whitelist, Blacklist)&gt;</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Semantics</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;WapPush&gt; element indicates that the URIs being pre-configured
are of WapPush service type. It should contain at least one of &lt;EBlackList&gt;
or &lt;EWhiteList&gt; elements mandatorily.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section id="GUID-BA3FB267-439E-4A7F-966D-FAAC2299194E"><title>ELEMENT &lt;Browser&gt;</title><table rowheader="firstcol" id="GUID-7C092F82-1F6D-4A21-9C5F-D083601BF6AB">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.50*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.50*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Element</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;!ELEMENT Browser (Whitelist, Blacklist)&gt; </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Semantics</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;Browser&gt; element indicates that the URIs being pre-configured
are of Browser service type. It should contain at least one of &lt;EBlackList&gt;
or &lt;EWhiteList&gt; elements mandatorily.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section id="GUID-CA49F5F8-E3A0-473A-82C2-0DEF77CA69DF"><title>ELEMENT &lt;PushEMail&gt;</title><table rowheader="firstcol" id="GUID-8EBDE89A-23EB-43E2-84CF-72ED3AF44E77">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.50*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.50*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Element</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;!ELEMENT PushEMail (Whitelist, Blacklist)&gt; </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Semantics</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;PushEMail&gt; element indicates that the URIs being pre-configured
are of PushEMail service type. It should contain at least one of &lt;EBlackList&gt;
or &lt;EWhiteList&gt; elements mandatorily.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section id="GUID-9991C922-7241-4943-AC17-CD0DA493F203"><title>ELEMENT &lt;DevPro&gt;</title><table rowheader="firstcol" id="GUID-545CEFEE-5517-4276-96A3-0F2B56975897">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.50*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.50*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Element</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;!ELEMENT DevPro (Whitelist, Blacklist)&gt; </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Semantics</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;DevPro&gt; element indicates that the URIs being pre-configured
are of DeviceProvisioning service type. It should contain at least one of
&lt;EBlackList&gt; or &lt;EWhiteList&gt; elements mandatorily.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section id="GUID-22CF6040-C3DE-4FE0-AA6B-72034935B404"><title>ELEMENT &lt;Whitelist&gt;</title><table rowheader="firstcol" id="GUID-68B7C3B8-2A10-4035-816B-EB931083B4B1">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.50*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.50*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Element</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;!ELEMENT Whitelist (Record)&gt; </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Semantics</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;Whitelist&gt; element indicates that the URIs being pre-configured
should be whitelisted. It should contain at least one &lt;Record&gt; element
mandatorily.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section id="GUID-CEB0D4F4-E473-4A94-96D0-C6B3EB80B0FE"><title>ELEMENT &lt;Blacklist&gt;</title><table rowheader="firstcol" id="GUID-E23EE882-AC43-49F1-AA24-F218313843D6">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.50*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.50*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Element</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;!ELEMENT Blacklist (Record)&gt; </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Semantics</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;Blacklist&gt; element indicates that the URIs being pre-configured
should be blacklisted. It should contain at least one &lt;Record&gt; element
mandatorily.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section id="GUID-6121F640-4C83-45F3-8BB9-C76B5FFAEB54"><title>ELEMENT &lt;record&gt;</title><table rowheader="firstcol" id="GUID-B78160E0-D214-4FD0-9265-80F10074A3B0">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.50*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.50*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Element</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;!ELEMENT Record ( Uri, Permission, FavouriteName)&gt; </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Semantics</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;Record&gt; element contains the URI and its properties. It should
contain mandatory element &lt;Uri&gt; and can optionally contain &lt;Permission&gt;
and &lt;favouriteName&gt; elements. For each URI to be added to the URI List,
one &lt;Record&gt; element should be created.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section id="GUID-CDCEBB07-0606-45A3-B910-422FF3DEDB39"><title>ELEMENT &lt;Uri&gt;</title><table rowheader="firstcol" id="GUID-D4C291FB-068C-4CEF-BA34-82F4CD84F38F">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.50*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.50*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Element</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;!ELEMENT Uri (#PCDATA)&gt; </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Semantics</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;Uri&gt; specifies the URI to be added to URI List. This should
not be null. The URI format should be compliant with RFC 3986.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section id="GUID-A780D581-EE24-4218-841D-5F145C98113F"><title>ELEMENT &lt;Permission&gt;</title><table rowheader="firstcol" id="GUID-0893651F-0506-434F-BAA1-0CAFC8D077BC">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.50*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.50*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Element</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;!ELEMENT Permission (#PCDATA)&gt; </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Semantics</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;Permission&gt; specifies the access level of Uri. It should be
set to either “EReadOnly” or “EReadWrite”. The read-only URIs cannot be deleted
or modified. If not specified by default, the access level of Uri is set to
“EReadWrite” .</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section id="GUID-F42A70DA-DF9E-491D-BD20-BA43175F979C"><title>ELEMENT &lt;FavouriteName&gt;</title><table rowheader="firstcol" id="GUID-481448D7-38A4-41DB-A81A-29EBEE408632">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.50*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.50*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Element</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;!ELEMENT FavouriteName (#PCDATA)&gt; </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Semantics</p> </entry>
<entry><p>&lt;FavouriteName&gt; specifies the URI’s favourite name to be added
to the URI List. This is an optional element.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
</conbody></concept>