<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-2861F3D9-875E-5AB3-9600-B328F042CC38" xml:lang="en"><title>MakeKeys
Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The <xref href="GUID-557BF1DA-B6E8-521B-89F0-15C84E3BCB1A.dita">MakeKeys</xref> tool
is a PC-side command-line tool that enables Symbian application developers
to create a private key-public key pair and generate certificate requests. </p>
<section><title>Purpose</title><p>The MakeKeys tool can be used to create
a private key-public key (in form of a self-signed certificate) pair. The
private key can then be used by the <xref href="GUID-B20EE8A3-D7B2-5872-AF43-001A88C1A46E.dita">SignSIS</xref> tool
to digitally sign an installation file. The self-signed certificate can be
used by the MakeKeys tool to create a certificate request file, which can
then be submitted to a Certification Authority (CA) for signing. </p><note>The
MakeKeys tool cannot generate Certification Authority (CA) certificates.</note> </section>
<section><title>Key concepts and terms</title> <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Key</dt>
<dd><p>A key is a constant value applied using a cryptographic algorithm to
encrypt text or to decrypt encrypted text. </p> <p>Keys are classified as
symmetric and asymmetric based on the type of algorithm applied. If the same
key is used for both encryption and decryption, it is symmetric. If different
keys are used for encryption and decryption, they are asymmetric. Asymmetric
keys exist in the form of a private key-public key pair, where the public
key is used for encryption and the private key is used for decryption. For
more information, see <xref href="GUID-FB2CAA46-8EBB-5F76-847C-F3B953C9D31C.dita">Public
Key Cryptography</xref>. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
</dl> <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Certification Authority</dt>
<dd><p>Certification Authority (CAs) is a trusted third party that provides
root certificates to users (End Entities). For details, see <xref href="GUID-911E9F7E-D0AD-55EC-A3F4-1D427F803780.dita">Certificates</xref>. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
</dl> <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Digital signature</dt>
<dd><p>A digital signature is used to verify that a message (or data) actually
came from the sender (the one who signed the message) and that it has not
been tampered with. For details, see <xref href="GUID-5C58F7D1-D672-5B6D-AD48-863EC68F7446.dita">Digital
Signatures</xref>. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
</dl> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-D45A4AE9-4169-4466-B02B-629B15C3E9AA.dita"><linktext>MakeKeys
Tutorials</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-557BF1DA-B6E8-521B-89F0-15C84E3BCB1A.dita"><linktext>MakeKeys
Reference</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>