<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-946E64D6-3E5D-5264-AD5D-29D3AD296543" xml:lang="en"><title>Selection
of Adaptations</title><shortdesc>The Graphics package contains a number of adaptation and customization
components. These are called <b>adaptations</b> in this topic. Symbian provides
implementations of these components. However, device creators can create their
own implementations—for example, to take advantage of the specific hardware
that is available in a particular device. This topic describes how to select
adaptations for inclusion in a ROM. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p><b>Target audience</b>: Device creators. </p>
<section id="GUID-2E93EB5D-5060-4E73-8B93-A6C0D7742AB7"><title>Adaptation
naming conventions</title> <p>Adaptations must have a specific name in the
ROM. The mechanism for selecting adaptations is based on the assumption that
all Symbian and non-Symbian adaptations have unique names and are renamed
to the required adaptation name during the ROM build process. This means that
all adaptation DLL, EXE and IBY files must have unique names. </p> <p>By convention,
these files have names of the form <codeph>component_&lt;vendor or feature&gt;.ext</codeph>,
where <codeph>component</codeph> is the abbreviated name of the component, <codeph>&lt;vendor
or feature&gt;</codeph> is the name of the implementer or some identifying feature
of the adaptation and <codeph>.ext</codeph> is the filename extension. </p> <p>For
example, here is the IBY file for an EGL adaptation. This has the name <filepath>egl_sw_abc.iby</filepath>.
The <filepath>sw</filepath> in the name indicates that the implementation
uses a software rather than a hardware solution and <filepath>abc</filepath> is
the name of the hypothetical implementer. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-1172A380-EEF2-5A1D-89DA-D503CBDC16D2" xml:space="preserve">// egl_sw_abc.iby
            
#ifndef __EGL_SW_ABC_IBY__
#define __EGL_SW_ABC_IBY__
    
file=ABI_DIR\BUILD_DIR\libegl_sw_abc.dll                 \sys\bin\libEGL.dll
#include &lt;graphicsresource.iby&gt;
    
#endif // __EGL_SW_ABC_IBY__
</codeblock> <p>In addition to the <b>adaptation-specific</b> IBY file, each
adaptation component has a <b>generic</b> IBY file, which has a name of the
form <filepath>component.iby</filepath>. For example, the generic IBY file
for EGL is called <filepath>egl.iby</filepath>. </p> <p>If you change the
name of a DLL during the ROM building process, use the <codeph>LINKAS</codeph> statement
in the MMP file to specify the required adaptation name. For example: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-74500A23-C098-5481-B512-583B63512610" xml:space="preserve">TARGET      libegl_sw_abc.dll
TARGETTYPE  DLL
LINKAS      libEGL.dll
...</codeblock> </section>
<section id="GUID-70CE663F-3B37-4654-BD21-E7B6CB848356"><title>Component-specific
macros</title> <p>The selection of adaptations for inclusion in a ROM involves
component-specific macros. These macros have names of the form <codeph>COMPONENT_DRV</codeph>,
where <codeph>COMPONENT</codeph> is the abbreviated component name and <codeph>_DRV</codeph> indicates
that it refers to an adaptation or driver. The following table lists the adaptation
components and their corresponding macros. </p> <table id="GUID-1E1802AD-D786-5BBD-9180-FC3F4A43A27F">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Component</entry>
<entry>Macro</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-BB4F5388-32EA-5A2E-845D-E5339D2040E9.dita">DirectGDI Adaptation</xref> </entry>
<entry><codeph>DIRECTGDI_DRV</codeph> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-DC3A8785-3ED3-5696-A5ED-AB66588A5C14.dita">EGL Implementation</xref> </entry>
<entry><codeph>EGL_DRV</codeph> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-E6E6A439-B3CC-5FEA-9148-2DB5F37003F2.dita">Extended Bitmap
Rasterizer Plug-in</xref> </entry>
<entry><codeph>FBSRASTERIZER_DRV</codeph> </entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-5E46C0EE-BD7D-5C85-8083-575BB2888AA7.dita">Graphics Resource
Adaptation</xref>  </entry>
<entry><codeph>GRAPHICSRESOURCE_DRV</codeph> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-7DD1BC7B-B3F7-515D-8DC8-B699B947B434.dita">OpenGLES Implementation</xref> </entry>
<entry><codeph>OPENGLES_DRV</codeph>  </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-20419A98-3787-5F10-9CAD-2BC5D7560776.dita">OpenVG Implementation</xref>  </entry>
<entry><codeph>OPENVG_DRV</codeph> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-8BEE0411-C6E9-5840-BE22-EC271A4D97DD.dita">OpenWF Composition
Implementation</xref></entry>
<entry><codeph>OPENWFCLIB_DRV</codeph> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-C7B420DE-CEDA-5D3F-8095-71136E862CDF.dita">Surface Manager</xref> </entry>
<entry><codeph>SURFACEMANAGER_DRV</codeph> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-81A0A2E9-4BB9-58BF-B2D3-08098E7E9C7C.dita">Surface Update
Server</xref> </entry>
<entry><codeph>SURFACEUPDATE_DRV</codeph> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>These macros are defined in a central file called <filepath>graphics_adaptation.hby</filepath>,
which is exported from the Common Graphics Header component. The <filepath>.hby</filepath> filename
extension indicates that it is a header file for inclusion in OBEY files.
OBEY files that use these macros must <codeph>#include</codeph> this HBY file
like this. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-B118E007-2AE3-5267-BC8C-3EDBB386F04A" xml:space="preserve">#include &lt;graphics_adaptation.hby&gt;</codeblock> <p>The
HBY file assigns the name of one of the Symbian adaptation's IBY file to each
of these macros. For example: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-CA1400A1-159D-5460-9CED-C9EB45BF7BC6" xml:space="preserve">#define EGL_DRV &lt;egl_sw_abc.iby&gt;</codeblock> <p>Each
component's generic IBY file includes the component's macro. For example,
here is the generic EGL IBY file: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-DF7F660B-5A6E-58DE-B53B-6138E3D6CEAB" xml:space="preserve">// egl.iby
            
#ifndef __EGL_IBY__
#define __EGL_IBY__
        
#include &lt;graphics_adaptation.hby&gt;
#include EGL_DRV
        
#endif</codeblock> <p>To select a custom adaptation simply redefine the relevant
macro to specify the custom adaptation IBY file. You can do this in the OBY
file for the ROM build or on the ROMBUILD command line as described next. </p> <p>Symbian
also provides a number of named configurations to simplify the selection of
a set of Symbian adaptations for a particular environment. These named configurations
are described below. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-3D02BA62-F9C9-4B57-902E-39D6728CA5E9"><title>Selecting
a custom adaptation</title> <p>Selecting a custom adaptation involves defining
the adaptation component's macro to specify the filename of the custom adaptation's
IBY file. The preferred way of doing this is in the OBY file. However, it
is also possible to do it on the ROMBUILD command line. Both methods override
the corresponding <codeph>#define</codeph> in <filepath>graphics_adaptation.hby</filepath>. </p> <p><b>Specifying
the custom adaptation in the OBY file </b> </p> <p>To select a specific custom
adaptation, <codeph>#define</codeph> the component's macro in the OBY file
for the ROM build. For example: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-8C1738C3-B9A8-5449-B0D4-89AC1BAB7ECA" xml:space="preserve">#define EGL_DRV &lt;egl_sw_abc.iby&gt;</codeblock> <p>This is the recommended way of specifying custom adaptations. </p> <p><b>Specifying
the custom adaptation on the Command Line </b> </p> <p>To select a custom
adaptation on the Command Line, specify the custom adaptation's IBY file in
the BUILDROM command as follows: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-D2020015-B7E8-5E2C-9AC0-73A09FA78264" xml:space="preserve">BUILDROM ... –DCOMPONENT_DRV="^&lt;"component_adaptation.iby"^&gt;" ... 
</codeblock> <p>Where <codeph>COMPONENT_DRV</codeph> is the name of the macro
and <filepath>component_adaptation.iby</filepath> is the name of the custom
adaptation's IBY file. The ^ character is required to escape the &lt; and
&gt; characters. </p> <p>Here is an example: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-4FF32002-4665-500A-A5A5-465EED6EC824" xml:space="preserve">-DEGL_DRV="^&lt;"egl_sw_abc.iby"^&gt;"</codeblock> <p>This overrides the default value set out in <filepath>graphics_adaptation.hby</filepath>.
You can override multiple components on the Command Line. However, configuring
the OBY file as explained above is the preferred approach. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-F4A3FFFF-7A5C-40AF-8CA2-25AD82950D58"><title>Configurations</title><p>Symbian
provides named configurations to simplify the selection of adaptations for
a particular environment. The named configurations are shown in the following
table. </p> <table id="GUID-4633D949-513D-5A47-985A-3F88F9A67CDE">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Configuration</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>SGA_CLASSIC</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Non-ScreenPlay environment. Used by default for non-ScreenPlay. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>SGA_SW</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>ScreenPlay environment using software-based adaptations. Used by
default for ScreenPlay. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>SGA_SW_NO_GRAPHICSRESOURCE</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>ScreenPlay environment using software-based adaptation and stubbed-out
Graphics Resource and DirectGDI adapters. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><p>You can select a configuration at ROM build time by using the <codeph>SYMBIAN_GRAPHICS_ADAPTATION</codeph> macro.
For example: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-FAE4A161-B77B-5AEE-AB00-1F195587CCA5" xml:space="preserve">BUILDROM ... –DSYMBIAN_GRAPHICS_ADAPTATION=SGA_SW ...</codeblock> <p>You
can use this macro in conjunction with the <codeph>SYMBIAN_GRAPHICS_USE_OPENWF</codeph> macro
(which is described in <xref href="GUID-6D8A1FC7-095B-587E-8274-23C132978C53.dita">Enabling
the Graphics Architecture Variants</xref>). </p> <p>These configurations select
adaptations by specifying the adaptation IBY files to use. The following table
shows the macro names for the relevant ScreenPlay components and the corresponding
IBY file for each of the ScreenPlay configurations. The trailing <filepath>.iby</filepath> characters
have been omitted to save space. </p> <table id="GUID-0BFCC648-77CF-59FF-B811-C1705B9114D1">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Macro</entry>
<entry><codeph>SGA_SW</codeph> </entry>
<entry><codeph>                 SGA_SW_NO_GRAPHICSRESOURCE</codeph> </entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>SURFACEMANAGER_DRV</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>surfacemanager_ref</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>surfacemanager_ref</filepath>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>SURFACEUPDATE_DRV</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>surfaceupdate_ref</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>surfaceupdate_ref</filepath>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>GRAPHICSRESOURCE_DRV</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>graphicsresourceadapter_sw</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>N/A</filepath>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>DIRECTGDI_DRV</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>directgdiadapter_sw</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>N/A</filepath>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>EGL_DRV</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>egl_ref.iby</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>egl_ref.iby</filepath>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>OPENGLES_DRV</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>opengles_sw</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>opengles_sw</filepath>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>OPENVG_DRV</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>openvg_sw</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>openvg_sw</filepath>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>OPENWFCLIB_DRV</codeph>  </p></entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>openwfc_ref</filepath> </p></entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>openwfc_ref</filepath>  </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>FBSRASTERIZER_DRV</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath> fbsrasterizer_stub</filepath>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>fbsrasterizer_stub</filepath>  </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><p>The following table shows the equivalent information for the non-ScreenPlay
configuration. </p> <table id="GUID-9974BDAA-3FC0-50BC-9BC7-F414035E755B">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Macro</entry>
<entry><codeph>SGA_CLASSIC</codeph> </entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>EGL_DRV</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>egl_sw_nongce</filepath>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>OPENGLES_DRV</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>opengles_sw</filepath>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>OPENVG_DRV</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>openvg_sw</filepath>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>FBSRASTERIZER_DRV</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <filepath>fbsrasterizer_stub </filepath>  </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>

</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-6D8A1FC7-095B-587E-8274-23C132978C53.dita"><linktext>Enabling
the Graphics Architecture                 Variants</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-EF62BF88-3687-505D-8BD7-EEDF36246E56.dita"><linktext>Graphics
Hardware Acceleration</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>