<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-53E1EBAB-758B-58DF-9568-8CC682C0F74F" xml:lang="en"><title>Screen
Handling</title><shortdesc>This topic provides information about screen size and display mode. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p> <b>Variant</b>: <xref href="GUID-D93978BE-11A3-5CE3-B110-1DEAA5AD566C.dita">ScreenPlay</xref> and <xref href="GUID-F64E6551-670E-5E12-8103-DE504D3EC94F.dita">non-ScreenPlay</xref>. <b>Target
audience</b>: Application developers. </p>
<section><title>Screen size independence</title> <p> </p> <p>Symbian is implemented
on many different phones with varying screen sizes. If application developers
want their applications to be portable across devices with different screen
sizes, they must ensure that they do not hard code any assumptions about screen
size in their code. You can find out the area of the screen that is available
for drawing at run time by using <xref href="GUID-1185F595-0488-3E93-8D60-6B3A1A3AC32E.dita"><apiname>CEikAppUi::ClientRect()</apiname></xref>. </p> </section>
<section><title>Screen display mode switching</title> <p>Before Symbian^3,
Symbian supported the automatic switching of the screen display mode—for example,
from 2bpp (bits per pixel) to 4bpp. This is no longer supported. The screen
display mode is now set when the device starts up based on the <codeph>SCREENMODE</codeph> parameter
in the <filepath>wsini.ini</filepath> file. See <xref href="GUID-1D529BDC-6665-58E2-AB3F-7023D8A84F69.dita">The
wsini.ini File Reference</xref> for more information. </p> <p>ScreenPlay provides
support for externally connected displays, such as TV-out, switching between
resolutions at runtime and notifications to Window Server clients when there
are changes to the resolution and connectedness. See <xref href="GUID-B1CB6374-2C2B-5D6C-9A7C-6E49D8F235B8.dita">Display
Control and Mapping</xref> for more information. </p> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-1F9A47CE-7F4C-52BD-8823-25D5D1BEF42F.dita"><linktext>Window Server
Client-Side Library                 Concepts</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-1D529BDC-6665-58E2-AB3F-7023D8A84F69.dita"><linktext>The wsini.ini
File Reference</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>