<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-7226DB6E-93E9-57E6-B7AB-043E1C5E2A7F"><title>Imaging Plug-ins Overview</title><shortdesc>This document introduces you to the Imaging Plug-ins component. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The Imaging Plug-ins component is used by the Imaging Frameworks component to access image formats. </p> </section> <section><title>Required background</title> <p>An understanding of image formats is required, see <xref href="GUID-88091838-03FC-550F-9A3D-DA70907EF955.dita#GUID-88091838-03FC-550F-9A3D-DA70907EF955/GUID-B7129F68-719C-5C6A-A842-E8ACA71980E4">Imaging Frameworks Overview</xref>. </p> </section> <section><title>Architecture</title> <p>The Imaging Plug-ins component interacts with the Imaging Framework component. </p> <p> <b>Note: </b> A client application cannot access the Imaging plug-ins directly as all communication is done through the Imaging Framework component. </p> </section> <section><title>APIs</title> <p>Imaging Plug-ins includes the following functionality: </p> <table id="GUID-AD88F914-0A22-59DD-B7B2-B64854581F5F"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><thead><row><entry>API</entry> <entry>Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <filepath> bitmaptransformsrefplugin.dll</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The Bitmap Transform Plug-in provides support for scaling and rotating. For more information see <xref href="GUID-C0B39D73-0A3C-5289-A774-7BE590037404.dita">Bitmap Transform Overview</xref>  </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath>bmpcodec.dll</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The BMP Codec Plug-in provides support for encoding and decoding the BMP format. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath>gifcodec .dll</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The GIF Codec Plug-in provides support for encoding and decoding the GIF format. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath>icocodec.dll</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The ICO Codec Plug-in provides support for decoding the ICO format. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath>jpegcodec.dll</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The JPEG Codec Plug-in provides support for encoding and decoding the JPEG Image Frame Plug-in. For more information see <xref href="GUID-636879DE-0D1B-5CB7-9552-5F38A89B3143.dita">JPEG Image Frame Plug-in Overview</xref>  </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath>jpegyuvdecoder.dll</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The JPEG YUV Decoder Plug-in provides support for decoding the JPEG and the YUV format. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath>mbmcodec.dll </filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The MBM Codec Plug-in provides support for encoding and decoding the MBM format. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath>mngimagedisplay.dll</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The MNG Image Codec Plug-in provides support for decoding and displaying the MNG format. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath>pngcodec.dll</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The PNG Codec Plug-in provides support for decoding the PNG format. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath>tiffcodec.dll</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The TIFF Codec Plug-in provides support for decoding the TIFF format. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath>wmpcodec.dll</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The WMP Codec Plug-in provides support for decoding the WMP format. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath>wmfcodec.dll</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>The WMF Codec Plug-in provides support for decoding the WMF format. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> <section><title>Typical uses</title> <p>Imaging Plug-ins provides support for </p> <ul><li id="GUID-D8841F3F-7106-5D09-80F5-63C9B86F2AC7"><p>the Bitmap Transform library to scale and rotate images. For more information see <xref href="GUID-C0B39D73-0A3C-5289-A774-7BE590037404.dita">Bitmap Transform Overview</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-BEDF8E0D-BA9B-51C9-9B5F-6D6C7FD991CA"><p>the Image Conversion library to encode and decode the images. For more information see <xref href="GUID-3D9C4B45-EEA0-581C-A9E5-8B2535014930.dita">Image Conversion Overview</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-64DD01AC-86E8-53B7-9CBE-D9C0BB7312B5"><p>the Image Display library to display the images. For more information see <xref href="GUID-27220B08-B2E7-5106-9BCC-C86938D3E37D.dita">Image Display Overview</xref>  </p> </li> </ul> </section> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-88091838-03FC-550F-9A3D-DA70907EF955.dita"><linktext>Imaging Framework Overview</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-74D3B534-B209-5884-B38F-DEDFB23B64CF.dita"><linktext>Imaging
                Framework Guides</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-9DFB1340-FA1E-530E-9372-DB6509CECA2B.dita"><linktext>Bitmap Transformation</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-9C371845-9F5D-56BB-BE16-ED60139D02AF.dita"><linktext>JPEG Exif Plugin</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-B5509C73-9A72-5E4D-B9BB-733B10EF842E.dita"><linktext>Exif Utility</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-BC9001F9-BA41-5916-B2B2-175E37D6F880.dita"><linktext>Gif Scaling and Colour Quantization
                Library</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-A68D1F27-FE7E-503E-B5B6-7BD555B88558.dita"><linktext>Image Conversion Library</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-C11D2D1A-F901-5439-BEAF-37E4BDE13EF7.dita"><linktext>Image Display Library</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-042868E6-88BF-5797-BB53-8E34283DCF16.dita"><linktext>Image Processor Library</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-53C0A250-287E-57E1-80BC-F66F9F9DD478.dita"><linktext>Image Transform Library</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-419BD5DC-6264-59FB-8EF4-E5652440A060.dita"><linktext>JPG Image Framework</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-1708D9F8-1277-59B9-8130-BBEFFFF1F481.dita"><linktext>Media Client Imaging</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>