<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-C90FE253-B88B-5F01-AC8B-E89249083C93" xml:lang="en"><title>Console App:
A Simple Console Program</title><shortdesc> 		This section explains the steps to build the ConsoleApp program
using the 		FreeBSD source code.  	 </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="SECTION_4C65EFF4E704402B917B1CECC81F76FE"> 		<title>Introduction</title> 
	<p> 		  This program converts a quantity from one unit of measurement into
		  another, prompting the user for input. Conversion information is provided
in a 		  data file, <filepath>slunits.dat</filepath>.  		</p>  		<p> 		  The
user is prompted for input, but it is important to note that STDLIB 		  does
not provide all of the functionality of a traditional console driver. 		 
STDLIB is intended to be a "behind-the-scenes" enabling technology, rather
than 		  an alternative user interface.  		</p>  		<p> 		  The code for the
ConsoleApp program was taken from the FreeBSD source 		  code (See <xref href="http://www.freebsd.org" scope="external">http://www.freebsd.org</xref>).  		</p>  	 </section>
<section> 		<title>Procedure to build the ConsoleApp</title> 		<p> 		  Build
the program using <filepath>bldmake</filepath> and <filepath>abld</filepath> as
		  the Hello example. For the Emulator, <filepath>slunits.dat</filepath> is
copied 		  automatically by <filepath>abld</filepath> into the correct directory.
For a target 		  phone, ensure that <filepath>slunits.dat</filepath> is located
in the directory 		  specified in <filepath>pathname.h</filepath>; this is
the root of the drive on which 		  the program is installed.  		</p>  		<p> 
	  To install <filepath>ConsoleApp.exe</filepath> on the target phone, create
a 		  <filepath>.sis</filepath> file using the Symbian Installation system.
 		</p>  		<p> 		  To run it on the target phone, invoke <filepath>ConsoleApp.exe</filepath>.
 		</p>  	 </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="http://www.freebsd.org" scope="external"><linktext>http://www.freebsd.org</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-0AF47934-0A16-51A2-9254-992D7C6B322B.dita"><linktext>Application
Installation Guide</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>