<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="GUID-B1B3C5E6-9F38-5A55-A30E-4C7591B446CC" xml:lang="en"><title>Certificate
Store Human-Readable File Formats</title><shortdesc>This section provides details of the human-readable form of the
following certificate store files: </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><refbody>
<section><ul>
<li id="GUID-16491000-D0D0-520A-B34F-EAA564D3F026"><p><xref href="GUID-B1B3C5E6-9F38-5A55-A30E-4C7591B446CC.dita#GUID-B1B3C5E6-9F38-5A55-A30E-4C7591B446CC/GUID-1CC16061-C0BA-5039-BABC-797279366531">File certificate store</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B475B679-D428-5E43-8A1C-4200663A0ACD"><p><xref href="GUID-B1B3C5E6-9F38-5A55-A30E-4C7591B446CC.dita#GUID-B1B3C5E6-9F38-5A55-A30E-4C7591B446CC/GUID-A8DABE5B-AF91-5775-8FBB-00B85E656D12">SWI certificate store</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-5081908D-4031-595C-A962-CB53990361FE"><p><xref href="GUID-B1B3C5E6-9F38-5A55-A30E-4C7591B446CC.dita#GUID-B1B3C5E6-9F38-5A55-A30E-4C7591B446CC/GUID-015E1FBA-AD2D-5BB0-8D5D-5F9C537A127D">Certificate client files</xref>  </p> </li>
</ul><note> For details of the fields that make up these certificate store
files, see <xref href="GUID-46D6DF29-38F7-5842-9FDD-82754AE8D9A0.dita">Human-Readable
File Formats Reference</xref>.</note> </section>
<section id="GUID-1CC16061-C0BA-5039-BABC-797279366531"><title>File certificate
store</title> <p>Use the <codeph>--hfilecertstore</codeph> command-line option
to specify the file certificate store in human-readable form. The file certificate
store has the following format: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-39C9F9C1-7909-5BE6-9295-E1F2FDB2148A" xml:space="preserve">
StartCertStoreEntries

            StartEntry "Root5CA"

                        Deletable true

                        Format EX509Certificate

                        CertOwnerType ECACertificate

                        SubjectKeyId auto

                        IssuerKeyId auto

                        StartApplicationList

                                    # Entry 1

                                                    Application "Server Authentication"

                        EndApplicationList

                        Trusted true

                        DataFileName "root5ca.pem"

            EndEntry

EndCertStoreEntries
</codeblock> <p> <b>Notes:</b>  </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-A2A73C93-6B0F-5122-8839-33095714286C"><p>All the fields are mandatory
and must be in the specified order. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9F2D2186-207C-56C9-8C43-8687ECE5030A"><p>Text outside quotes
is not case-sensitive. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<refsyn id="GUID-A8DABE5B-AF91-5775-8FBB-00B85E656D12"><title>SWI certificate
store</title> <p>Use the <codeph>--hswicertstore</codeph> command-line option
to specify the Software Install (SWI) certificate store in human-readable
form. The SWI certificate store is of the following format: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-E7504CCF-7CAD-550B-8567-CF89480D4C05" xml:space="preserve">
StartSwiCertStoreEntries

            StartEntry "SymbianA"    

                        Format EX509Certificate

                        CertOwnerType ECACertificate

                        SubjectKeyId auto

                        IssuerKeyId auto

                        StartApplicationList

                                    # Entry 1

                                                    Application "SW Install"

                                    # Entry 2

                                                    Application "SW Install OCSP Signing"

                        EndApplicationList

                        Trusted true

                        DataFileName "cert.der"

                        CapabilitySet { TCB CommDD PowerMgmt MultimediaDD ReadDeviceData 
WriteDeviceData DRM TrustedUI ProtServ DiskAdmin NetworkControl 
AllFiles SwEvent NetworkServices LocalServices ReadUserData 
WriteUserData Location SurroundingsDD UserEnvironment }

                        Mandatory false

                        SystemUpgrade false

            EndEntry

EndSwiCertStoreEntries
</codeblock> <p> <b>Note:</b>  </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-4C4BFD71-F93B-5BC1-981F-75D7D39714CE"><p>All the fields are mandatory
and must be in the specified order. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A0FC27EF-5D48-5EB1-A395-1B719C6D0399"><p>Text outside quotes
is not case-sensitive. </p> </li>
</ul> </refsyn>
<refsyn id="GUID-015E1FBA-AD2D-5BB0-8D5D-5F9C537A127D"><title>Certificate
client files</title> <p>Use the <codeph>–hcertclients</codeph> command-line
option to specify the certificate client files in human-readable form. A certificate
client file has the following format: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-3B21193B-EA11-5A8A-9FED-004A21CB392D" xml:space="preserve">

StartClientInfo

        # Entry 1

        Uid 0x100042ab

        Name "SW Install"

        # Entry 2

        Uid 0x1000a8b6

        Name "SW Install OCSP Signing"

        # Entry 3

        Uid 0x101f9b28

        Name "MIDlet Installation"

        # Entry 4

        Uid 0x1000183d

        Name "Server Authentication"

EndClientInfo

</codeblock> <p> <b>Important:</b>  </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-496D4072-75FD-5598-BC43-A5895392D15B"><p>All the fields are mandatory
and must be in the specified order. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B500E6D5-3D42-5847-B075-B6EFFEA75A22"><p>Only one entry is allowed
for each UID. </p> </li>
</ul> </refsyn>
</refbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-FF6F26C7-0037-5117-9232-6FAFFA152F0C.dita"><linktext>Certificate
Store Binary Files</linktext></link>
</related-links></reference>