<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="GUID-8792CCC3-B70F-53FC-B394-B0069AF90349" xml:lang="en"><title>InterpretSIS</title><abstract> <p>The <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> tool is a PC-side
command-line tool. It can be used by device creators to install SIS
files to a data drive image that can be flashed to a device internal
drive or removable media. </p><p><codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> can
be invoked either through BUILDROM while creating a data drive image
or as a stand-alone tool. If invoking the tool through BUILDROM, the
SIS files to be installed are listed in the OBEY file using the SISfile
keyword. For an example OBEY file, see <b> ROM Tools Guide &gt; ROM Tools
Guide &gt; Using ROM Tools &gt; Building a Data Drive Image</b>. </p> </abstract><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><refbody>
<section id="GUID-3003AA1E-5C97-4568-992D-55BD949DF733"><title>Syntax</title><p><userinput>interpretsis <parmname>[OPTIONS]</parmname> <cmdname>&lt;ARGS&gt;</cmdname> </userinput> </p> <p>The following table lists
the options supported by the <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> tool: </p> <table id="GUID-EB7B464E-6D7A-56EB-A4DD-94352C9250DB"><title>Interpretsis
tool options</title>
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Options</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
<entry>Usage</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-h</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Displays help message. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-h]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-o</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Displays the OpenSSL licence. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-o]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-v</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Displays the version of the tool. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-v]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-z</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The directory representing the <filepath>Z</filepath> drive
on the device. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis -[z dir]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-c</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>(Mandatory). The directory representing the system drive
on the device. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-c dir] [-d drive] [-t romstubdir]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-d</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The system drive (by default, <filepath>C</filepath> drive). </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-d drive]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-r</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>List of ROM or ROFS build log files. For example, see <xref href="GUID-882DCE58-5E5F-44D2-9E84-093709EAA4BE.dita#GUID-882DCE58-5E5F-44D2-9E84-093709EAA4BE/GUID-0bddead5-381b-4d8c-9437-74a4d9ef48b5">Configuring the content of ROM drive</xref>. </p> <p>This option
must not be used with <varname>-z</varname> option or define the <filepath>Z</filepath> drive in the configuration file. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput> interpretsis [-r rofsbuild_log_file1,rofsbuild_log
_file2,...]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-t</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>ROM Stub SIS files directory. This option must be used with <codeph>-r</codeph> option. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-t romstubdir]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-e</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Disables eclipsing and SID checks using <filepath>Z</filepath> drive. The <codeph>-z</codeph> or <codeph>-r</codeph> is not required
when this option is used. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-e]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-i</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Configuration file with HAL attribute values for installation.
For example, see <xref href="GUID-882DCE58-5E5F-44D2-9E84-093709EAA4BE.dita#GUID-882DCE58-5E5F-44D2-9E84-093709EAA4BE/GUID-b4a2d72c-95ab-44e6-8bf3-5cba3957c67e">Supporting device variant creation</xref>. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-i config_file]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-k</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the SISRegistry version to be generated. For example,
see <xref href="GUID-882DCE58-5E5F-44D2-9E84-093709EAA4BE.dita#GUID-882DCE58-5E5F-44D2-9E84-093709EAA4BE/GUID-bd93fd67-d9b3-491b-802c-27cbd1038c0e">Configuring the registry version</xref>. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-k [4.0 | 5.0 | 5.1 | 5.2 | 5.3
| 5.4]]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-l</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The log file in which the diagnostic information is stored.
By default, the information is stored in <filepath>stderr</filepath>. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-l logfile]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-n</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p><xref href="GUID-31C133DE-F245-5992-9A41-20A99291E72A.dita"> Language
code</xref>: Is a decimal number as defined in <codeph>TLanguage</codeph> enum. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-n language_code]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-p</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the file containing additional parameters. Command
line arguments specified after the file overrides the file contents. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-p param_file]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-s</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the SIS files to install.</p> <p>This option can
be used to override the drive specified in the PKG file. For example,
see <xref href="GUID-882DCE58-5E5F-44D2-9E84-093709EAA4BE.dita#GUID-882DCE58-5E5F-44D2-9E84-093709EAA4BE/GUID-5ddda82b-39b2-4240-b89b-3f796f8f8e94">Overriding the installation drive specified in the PKG file</xref>. </p> <p>The <codeph>+sucert</codeph> option can be used with this
option to indicate that the file is signed by a <codeph>SU</codeph> certificate. For example, see <xref href="GUID-882DCE58-5E5F-44D2-9E84-093709EAA4BE.dita#GUID-882DCE58-5E5F-44D2-9E84-093709EAA4BE/GUID-1df8c2ad-3bab-4b03-8245-b37826c2910d">Installing system upgrade packages</xref>. </p><p>For more information
about the options, see <xref href="GUID-8792CCC3-B70F-53FC-B394-B0069AF90349.dita#GUID-8792CCC3-B70F-53FC-B394-B0069AF90349/GUID-37F7F864-6228-56DA-A62F-43A0E6CAEA96">additional options</xref>.</p></entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-s [sisfile | dir] [+drive [+mcard
| +mcardnr | +mcardalone | + mcardalonenr | +nonremovablepkg] [+sucert]]]
[-s ...]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-w</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The level of diagnostics to display –<codeph>WARN</codeph>, <codeph>ERROR</codeph>, <codeph>INFO</codeph>, <codeph>OFF</codeph> (<codeph>WARN</codeph> by default). </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-w [off | error | warn | info]]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-x</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Removes the files installed for a package. For example,
see <xref href="GUID-882DCE58-5E5F-44D2-9E84-093709EAA4BE.dita#GUID-882DCE58-5E5F-44D2-9E84-093709EAA4BE/GUID-2e68d8df-461c-428e-9874-9b0df47072f0">Uninstalling preinstalled packages</xref>. </p> <p>This option must
not be used with <codeph>-s</codeph> option. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>interpretsis [-x pkgUID[,pkgUID2,...]]</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>The following table lists the additional options that
can be used: </p> <table id="GUID-37F7F864-6228-56DA-A62F-43A0E6CAEA96">
<title>Additional options</title>
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Options</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>mcard</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Generates stub SIS file for the installation package. This
is required for package propagation. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>mcardnr</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Generates non-removable stub SIS file for the installation
package. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>mcardalone</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Generates stub SIS file for the installation package and
does not generate the SIS Registry entry in the <filepath>$:\sys\install\sisregistry\&lt;package
UID&gt;\</filepath> directory. It just creates a preinstalled package
on the media card. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>mcardalonenr</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Generates non-removable stub SIS file for the installation
package and does not generating the SIS Registry entry in <filepath>$:\sys\install\sisregistry\&lt;package UID&gt;\</filepath> directory. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>nonremovablepkg</codeph></p></entry>
<entry><p>Generates a non-removable installation package.</p><note> This option converts a removable SIS file to non-removable SIS file
at install time. It reduces the effort of creating a new SIS file
with the <codeph>NR</codeph> flag during device creation.</note></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>sucert</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Indicates that the SIS file is signed with a <codeph>SU</codeph> certificate. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>The following table lists arguments specified with the <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> tool: </p> <table id="GUID-9014C0D9-8459-50B7-91AF-2466A2B7980F">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Arguments </entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>pkgUID </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The installed package UID either in Hexadecimal or Decimal
format (for example, 0x12345678, 305419896). </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>sisfile </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The SIS files to be installed. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>dir </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The directory that contains the SIS files to be installed. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>drive </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The drive letter on the device. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
</refbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-906165AD-D45D-54BB-8094-023F792F1632.dita"><linktext>Preinstalling
 Applications</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-9D5F3B5E-37FB-5156-808B-F92519412A7F.dita"><linktext>Language
Dependent Files</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-4BDC9F63-83A1-53A5-91A0-B092AA821755.dita"><linktext>MakeSIS</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-AA555CC1-5CFF-5609-9191-8970F32BA255.dita"><linktext>CreateSIS</linktext>
</link>
</related-links></reference>