<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-DEC51327-2C34-5AC0-B7B2-B4762EE832E1"><title>Default Positioning Module Overview</title><shortdesc>The Default Positioning Module is a proxy PSY used by the Location Server (eposserver.exe) to select a PSY when a Location Acquisition API client opens a session without specifying a PSY ID. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The Default Positioning Module is used by the Location Server when a Location Acquisition API client calls <xref href="GUID-1EAEB7EF-0AC7-37C7-B35F-C9B780FFC575.dita#GUID-1EAEB7EF-0AC7-37C7-B35F-C9B780FFC575/GUID-AF3D9B5F-8025-3AFF-A101-82025520EBD6"><apiname>RPositioner::Open()</apiname></xref> without specifying a PSY ID. </p> <p>The Default Positioning Module is used internally by LBS and has no published APIs. </p> </section> <section><title>Required background</title> <p>Read <xref href="GUID-7233BC33-6060-5D6B-A5D2-01135F059337.dita">LBS Architecture Overview</xref> to understand how PSYs fit into the LBS subsystem. </p> </section> <section><title>Key concepts and terms</title> <dl><dlentry><dt>Location Server</dt> <dd><p>The Location Server manages location requests makes using the Location Acquisition API. Location requests from the Location Server <filepath>eposserver.exe</filepath> can be sent via the Default Positioning Module. </p> </dd> </dlentry> <dlentry><dt>Positioning Plug-in (PSY)</dt> <dd><p>An ECom plug-in that provides position data to the LBS subsystem. The Default Positioning Module is a <i>Proxy PSY</i> because it forwards requests for position data to another PSY, such as the Bluetooth Positioning Module or Simulation Positioning Module. </p> </dd> </dlentry> </dl> </section> <section><title>Architecture</title> <p>When a Location Acquisition Request is made, if no PSY is specified, then the Default Position Module handles the request. </p> <p>The Default Positioning module receives a location request and acts as a proxy to a selected PSY. </p> <p>The Default Positioning Module includes functions to inspect the prioritised list of Positioning Modules and return the top of the list, and to receive notification when the prioritised list of Positioning Modules is updated by the Location Settings API. </p> </section> <section><title>APIs</title> <p>The Default Positioning Module has no published APIs. </p> </section> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-7233BC33-6060-5D6B-A5D2-01135F059337.dita"><linktext>LBS Architecture Overview</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>