<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-11FE772A-E662-4B88-B871-97A40A40FBAB" xml:lang="en"><title>Handling
EEikCmdExit</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>If your Symbian GUI-based application should close, for example, in
out of memory situations, you must handle the <parmname>EEikCmdExit</parmname> command
ID in your override of <xref href="GUID-1185F595-0488-3E93-8D60-6B3A1A3AC32E.dita#GUID-1185F595-0488-3E93-8D60-6B3A1A3AC32E/GUID-D6E5C363-CF39-3E56-B717-57CCEE8DC96F"><apiname>CEikAppUi::HandleCommandL()</apiname></xref>. The
UI architecture of your application determines where you override <xref href="GUID-1185F595-0488-3E93-8D60-6B3A1A3AC32E.dita#GUID-1185F595-0488-3E93-8D60-6B3A1A3AC32E/GUID-D6E5C363-CF39-3E56-B717-57CCEE8DC96F"><apiname>CEikAppUi::HandleCommandL()</apiname></xref>.
A typical implementation is as follows:</p>
<codeblock id="GUID-80E7C5FF-A507-42FA-ACF0-808539FFF6A5" xml:space="preserve">void CMyCommandHandlingAppUi::HandleCommandL(TInt aCommand)
    {
    	
    switch(aCommand)
        {
        case EEikCmdExit:
        case EAknSoftkeyExit:
            Exit();
            break;
       
        default:
            break;
        }
    }
</codeblock>
<p>where <xref href="GUID-1185F595-0488-3E93-8D60-6B3A1A3AC32E.dita#GUID-1185F595-0488-3E93-8D60-6B3A1A3AC32E/GUID-6DB0AB66-DC74-33EB-9DA4-8DB6383728F9"><apiname>CEikAppUi::Exit()</apiname></xref> closes the application. <xref href="GUID-1185F595-0488-3E93-8D60-6B3A1A3AC32E.dita"><apiname>CEikAppUi</apiname></xref> also
provides <codeph>SaveAnyChangesL()</codeph> and <parmname>SaveL()</parmname> methods
in case you need to save the application document.</p>
<note>
<p>In Symbian view architecture applications, the <parmname>EEikCmdExit</parmname> command
must be only handled once: either in the UI controller or in a view. Since
the exit command is an application wide command, it is recommended that it
be handled in the UI controller implementation.</p>
</note>
<p><xref href="GUID-1185F595-0488-3E93-8D60-6B3A1A3AC32E.dita#GUID-1185F595-0488-3E93-8D60-6B3A1A3AC32E/GUID-6DB0AB66-DC74-33EB-9DA4-8DB6383728F9"><apiname>CEikAppUi::Exit()</apiname></xref> exits the application. If the application
is embedded, control returns to the parent, which should also exit. The application
framework sends an <parmname>EEikCmdExit</parmname> command ID to each application
in this chain to support this behavior.</p>
<note>
<p><xref href="GUID-1185F595-0488-3E93-8D60-6B3A1A3AC32E.dita#GUID-1185F595-0488-3E93-8D60-6B3A1A3AC32E/GUID-6DB0AB66-DC74-33EB-9DA4-8DB6383728F9"><apiname>CEikAppUi::Exit()</apiname></xref> is guaranteed not to return. This
means that you should not trap this method. Among other things, do not call
another method when you handle the command ID that triggers an exit.</p>
</note>
</conbody></concept>