<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-65282D5B-E911-5C7E-8571-0FCDCD1C1713" xml:lang="en"><title>Copyright
Information</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section><title>Overview</title> <p>The Z Shell is covered by the following
copyright notice. </p></section>
<section><title>Z Shell license terms</title> <p>The Z Shell is copyright
(c) 1992-2007 Paul Falstad, Richard Coleman, Zoltán Hidvégi, Andrew Main,
Peter Stephenson, Sven Wischnowsky, and others. All rights reserved. Individual
authors, whether or not specifically named, retain copyright in all changes;
in what follows, they are referred to as `the Zsh Development Group'. This
is for convenience only and this body has no legal status. The Z shell is
distributed under the following licence; any provisions made in individual
files take precedence. </p> <p>Permission is hereby granted, without written
agreement and without licence or royalty fees, to use, copy, modify, and distribute
this software and to distribute modified versions of this software for any
purpose, provided that the above copyright notice and the following two paragraphs
appear in all copies of this software. </p> <p>In no event shall the Zsh Development
Group be liable to any party for direct, indirect, special, incidental, or
consequential damages arising out of the use of this software and its documentation,
even if the Zsh Development Group have been advised of the possibility of
such damage. </p> <p>The Zsh Development Group specifically disclaim any warranties,
including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and
fitness for a particular purpose. The software provided hereunder is on an
"as is" basis, and the Zsh Development Group have no obligation to provide
maintenance, support, updates, enhancements, or modifications. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>