<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-3A923665-D003-461B-9332-28689CFB39E5" xml:lang="en"><title>Pop-ups</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Pop-up is a secondary window that is initiated to allow users to perform
a task that supports the primary task in the main window or the application.
It can contain panes, text, graphics, controls such as checkboxes, radio buttons,
or sliders and one or more action buttons to confirm the completion or cancellation
of the task to be completed.</p>
<p>For details on softkeys for pop-ups, refer to <xref href="GUID-83798F82-15FB-4EA6-9AD8-540616CBF6C4.dita">Control
pane with pop-up</xref>.</p>
<p>Tactile: Opening and closing pop-ups differs with respect to tactile feedback:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Preview pop-up, stylus scrolling pop-up, tooltip and discreet pop-up
do not have any feedback when opening or closing.</p></li>
<li><p>Slider and volume pop-up, and universal indicator have pop-up effect
when opening and closing, irrespective of whether the theme effects are ON
or OFF.</p></li>
<li><p>Task swapper, context-specific options menu, submenu and options menu
have normal pop-up effect when opening and closing if the theme effects are
OFF. If they are ON, then increasing long touch is used when opening and pop-up
close effect when closing.</p></li>
<li><p>Stylus pop-up menu, which opens via long touch, provides only the increasing
long touch effect during the touch down and hold event. It does not provide
additional pop-up effect when the menu opens.</p></li>
</ul>
<p><b>See also</b>:</p>
</conbody></concept>