<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-F575F364-4BCA-42C7-BE00-7B31D8B55AE1" xml:lang="en"><title>Reserving
the device vibra</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context>       <p>The <codeph>ReserveVibraL()</codeph> call reserves the
vibration feature exclusively for the client. A higher priority client may
cause lower priority client reservation to be temporarily suspended. Commands
can still be issued in suspended state, but they are not acted upon unless
suspension is lifted within specified duration. The suspended client does
not receive any notification about suspension. If vibra is already reserved
by a higher or equal priority application, reserving still succeeds but suspended
immediately.</p><p>The following code snippet demonstrates how to reserve
the device vibration feature:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">iVibra-&gt;ReserveVibraL( ETrue, EFalse );</codeblock><p>First
parameter <codeph>ETrue</codeph> means that any previously frozen state is
restored. Second parameter <codeph>EFalse</codeph> means that the <codeph>CCoeEnv</codeph> background/foreground
status is always used to control further reservations.</p><p>Calling the <codeph>ReserveVibraL()</codeph> method
without parameters is equal to calling <codeph>ReserveVibraL(EFalse, EFalse)</codeph>,
i.e. any previously frozen state is not restored and the <codeph>CCoeEnv</codeph> background/foreground
status is always used to control further reservations. </p></context>
</taskbody></task>