<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-EAD6B365-DCB9-51AD-AF21-0B8262B468A2" xml:lang="en"><title>WhiteList/BlackList
URI Services Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Mobile widgets are increasingly being used to connect to internet, which
has increased the vulnerability of devices. To address this issue, Symbian
provides a framework using which origins of harmful messages can be added
to a BlackList. The framework also supports adding the origin of trusted clients
to a WhiteList. This allows end users to control the data they receive from
networks. </p>
<p>Symbian provides a client-server framework to support BlackList/WhiteList
origins (URIs). The framework currently supports <i>Browser</i>, <i>WapPush</i>, <i>PushEmail</i> and <i>DeviceProvisioning</i> service
type URIs. The URI entry is unique for a given service type and similar URIs
from different service types can exist in the URI list. </p>
<p>The BlackList/WhiteList framework provides support for adding a URI to
the list, removing a URI from list, updating a URI in the list, reading URIs
from the list, and querying for URIs in the list. Support for wildcard URI
entries is not provided. The framework also provides support for pre-configuration
of URIs in the list to enable clients to add their own URIs. </p>
<p><b>See Also </b> </p>
<ul>
<li id="GUID-5C534E00-9D07-50CE-98A3-D0910FDC0964"><p> <xref href="GUID-F8159093-6349-516B-8301-C50BD2AC9F2C.dita">Using
URIs from the URI List</xref> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2E66D95E-E300-54C0-B418-0B78738038C8"><p> <xref href="GUID-402B5633-1E3A-5F24-8C4F-DA5F04D2557C.dita">Querying
URIs from the URI List</xref> </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-4DD7ECDE-428A-5179-A326-91C93146A529"><p> <xref href="GUID-B36F47DC-0A62-5B8F-A761-2717B921A339.dita">Pre-configuring
the URI List</xref> </p> </li>
</ul>
</conbody></concept>