<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-DEA883D0-7C53-407A-AC5D-0A3208E667C7" xml:lang="en"><title>EGL
Reusable Sync Extension</title><shortdesc>This topic describes the EGL reusable sync extension, which introduces
sync objects into EGL. Sync objects provide a synchronization mechanism and
represent events, whose completion can be tested or waited on. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The following table provides a link to the specification.</p>
<table id="GUID-3E2BB969-C9C3-473B-B448-5BEAA279619B">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.20*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.80*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry valign="top">Version </entry>
<entry valign="top">Specification</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Version 20</entry>
<entry><xref href="http://www.khronos.org/registry/egl/extensions/KHR/EGL_KHR_reusable_sync.txt" scope="external">http://www.khronos.org/registry/egl/extensions/KHR/EGL_KHR_reusable_sync.txt</xref></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The OpenWF-C Engine and Support components use EGL sync objects for synchronization.
Therefore the EGL implementation must support the extension if OpenWF composition
is in use. The EGL Reference Implementation component implements the extension. </p>
<p>The following table lists the reusable sync extension APIs.
Clients obtain an extension function by calling <codeph>eglGetProcAddress()</codeph> and
pass in the function name.</p>
<table id="GUID-CE850680-15FF-4861-8B03-5D56125282D7">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry valign="top">Function</entry>
<entry valign="top">Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><codeph>eglCreateSyncKHR()</codeph></entry>
<entry>Creates a sync object which is associated with the initialized EGL
display and whose status is unsignaled.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>eglDestroySyncKHR()</codeph></entry>
<entry>Destroys an existing sync object.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>eglClientWaitSyncKHR()</codeph></entry>
<entry>Blocks the calling thread until the sync object is signaled or after
the specified timeout period.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>eglSignalSyncKHR()</codeph></entry>
<entry>Signals or unsignals the sync object. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>eglGetSyncAttribKHR()</codeph></entry>
<entry>Queries attributes of the sync object.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<codeblock xml:space="preserve"/>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-A5914CFF-6F86-53E8-9928-36D3379835B1.dita"><linktext>EGL Interface
Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-894AB487-C127-532D-852B-37CB0DEA1440.dita"><linktext>Symbian-Specific
Behavior</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-46813F51-370B-5853-917C-6916925A347D.dita"><linktext>EGL Tutorial</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-DC8BFEF5-DA50-52DA-8CE2-5729A4A005F6.dita"><linktext>EGL Collection
Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-83510B5B-9725-5272-BF51-23A089178DAC.dita">
<linktext>OpenWF Support Component Overview</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>