<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-EB0D6244-0975-53DA-8F11-7B59A2D851AF" xml:lang="en"><title>Events</title><shortdesc>This section describes the concept of the events in the QoS. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The following list describes the events in the QoS: </p>
<ul>
<li id="GUID-CDB99D89-E8A7-5FAA-87EB-B410DC8C2B7F"><p> <b>CSubConGenEventDataClientJoined</b> and <b>CSubConGenEventDataClientLeft</b> -
The source and destination end points of the data client are presented with
this event, along with the IAP ID of the connection on which it is created.
These two events are derived from <codeph>CSubConGenEventDataClientBase</codeph> and
they provide the functionality for both. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2355941B-69C5-5604-AF9D-141753DB27C6"><p> <b>CSubConNotificationEvent</b> -
Both generic and extension subconnection events derive from this class. The
rules for generic and extension events are the same as for parameter sets.
The <codeph>IsGeneric()</codeph> method identifies whether the event is generic.
The <codeph>GroupId()</codeph> method returns the UID of the factory that
contains the event, and <codeph>Id()</codeph> returns the class type Id within
that factory. This information consists of the <codeph>STypeId</codeph> of
the event. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-D5216E71-7DE4-5053-86E6-EF9DDEDE4940"><p> <b> CSubConGenEventParamsGranted</b> -
Notification of this event occurs when a request to <codeph>SetParameters()</codeph> is
sent and negotiation with the network is completed. A notification is received
for each successful negotiation with the family contained in the parameter
bundle. This event represents a generic set and zero or more extension sets
of the parameter family identified by the Id returned from <codeph>GetFamily()</codeph>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3CE9943D-2E68-54F4-9CA7-E9843B8E7CB4"><p> <b>CSubConGenEventParamsRejected</b> -
Notification of this event occurs after a request to <codeph>SetParameters()</codeph> is
made and negotiation with the network fails. It can be an error within the
handset software or configuration, or that the network cannot provide the
acceptable, that is the minimum level of QoS. The reason for failure and the
parameter family are presented by the accessor methods <codeph>Error()</codeph> and <codeph>FamilyId()</codeph>.
A notification for <xref href="GUID-7103CFA3-2119-3356-9460-B26D88036FEB.dita"><apiname>CSubConGenEventParamsRejected</apiname></xref> event
is received for each family in the parameter bundle that cannot be negotiated
successfully. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-D7611427-9B1F-5687-A10B-F80AC47B71CA"><p> <b>CSubConGenEventParamsChanged</b> -
This event occurs when the properties of a parameter family are negotiated
due to some event on the network. It is not sent in response to a request
to change the properties. The change can be the result of an error or just
that the level of QoS has improved or worsened. If a new set of parameters
are available they are presented as with the <xref href="GUID-AA6CFA1E-0B17-3603-9065-34D05322C0A5.dita"><apiname>CSubConGenEventParamsGranted</apiname></xref> event.
The error status is presented through the <codeph>Error()</codeph> method. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-CD6E64F1-4F70-59ED-B0A5-7E5FE1B0BB19"><p> <b>CSubConGenEventSubConDown</b> -
This event occurs when the underlying subconnection is lost. This can be due
to the request for it to be closed, or some error on the network. The error
status is presented through the <codeph>Error()</codeph> method. </p> </li>
</ul>
</conbody></concept>