<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-AC4C18D1-D6A3-5988-AB10-5A5025183950" xml:lang="en"><title> Modifying
TLD Policy Data</title><shortdesc>This document explains how to update the TLD character lists. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<prereq id="GUID-229CD8D8-0BC4-443A-B3BA-7CA4E2DEEDF8"><p>Before you start, you must: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-93E6F781-F32E-591C-AFF0-5E2965672620"><p>Be familiar with the
general concepts of Top-Level Domain (TLD) and International Domain Name (IDN):
see <xref href="GUID-6A78F618-09A9-56A7-8C58-98C353BF0788.dita">What is the Domain
Name Server</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2E726E0D-4BBA-51BB-9F9B-A89B2A2C2B5A"><p>Understand SIS files
and how to install them: see <xref href="GUID-ED2D5BEA-AD2A-51CE-8CBC-8B5E33DD6356.dita">Secure
Software Install SIS Tools</xref>. </p> </li>
</ul> </prereq>
<context id="GUID-352A7085-58F8-4D18-9FD2-E42CA9C6E7DC"><p>For each TLD, the InetURIList database contains a white list of
safe characters and a black list of forbidden characters. These Unicode character
sets improve the phone security by restricting access to potential phishing
addresses. </p> <p>The default policy data is stored in an XML file in the
ROM. To change the policy data, install an SIS package with a new TLD policy
file. </p> </context>
<steps id="GUID-FC107B6B-8AD5-5088-9687-C4A76905A62D">
<step id="GUID-2AB5E926-62F2-5536-A8F5-855E9FEB2541"><cmd>Create a policy
file with the updated data. For more information, see the <xref href="GUID-AC4C18D1-D6A3-5988-AB10-5A5025183950.dita#GUID-AC4C18D1-D6A3-5988-AB10-5A5025183950/GUID-4319147E-A6A0-5FBE-AC15-C61C287A762A">Policy data file example</xref> section below. </cmd>
<info>The version must be higher than in the TLD policy file already installed
on the phone. </info>
<stepxmp><codeblock id="GUID-7759073B-9D6D-578E-8E85-2D32F79A3D21" xml:space="preserve">&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?&gt;
&lt;PolicyData version="2"&gt;
   ...
&lt;/PolicyData&gt;</codeblock> </stepxmp>
</step>
<step id="GUID-FA0E5385-250A-51A8-A34D-3F7588DECAB0"><cmd>Create a SIS package
containing the TLD policy file. </cmd>
<info>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-AFE0238A-D6A4-5D07-BB99-85E8CF97BD26.dita">SIS
Tools Overview</xref>. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-ABB82F08-20B6-5B77-9FCC-E9ED9B04BC00"><cmd>Install the SIS
package on the phone. </cmd>
<info>The SIS installation replaces the previous TLD policy file by the new
one. </info>
</step>
</steps>
<result id="GUID-8B69E81C-D10B-4B75-866B-28A5C17B1EAC"><p>The next time the InetURIList server starts, it updates the InetURIList
database if the policy data's version is higher than the current one. </p> </result>
<example id="GUID-4319147E-A6A0-5FBE-AC15-C61C287A762A"><title>Policy data
file example</title> <p>Here is a sample XML file for the TLD policy data:
the character separator for the white and black lists is the space (blank)
character. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-871D3153-DCCD-5B05-8776-6653ADBC2FD1" xml:space="preserve">
&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?&gt;
&lt;PolicyData version="2"&gt;
        &lt;TLD name="TEST"&gt;
               &lt;Whitelist&gt;
            a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p r s t u v w y 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 _ - A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W Y
               &lt;/Whitelist&gt;
               &lt;Blacklist&gt;
            q z Q Z
               &lt;/Blacklist&gt;
        &lt;/TLD&gt;
     &lt;TLD name="GRK"&gt;
               &lt;Whitelist&gt;
            a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p r s t u v w y 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 _ - A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P R S T U V W Y
               &lt;/Whitelist&gt;
               &lt;Blacklist&gt;
            α ν β ξ    γ ο δ π ε Ρ Ζ Σ Η Τ Θ Υ Ι ι Φ Κ κ Χ χ Λ Ψ ψ Μ μ    Ω ω
               &lt;/Blacklist&gt;
        &lt;/TLD&gt;
 &lt;/PolicyData&gt;</codeblock> </example>
<postreq id="GUID-0E78E46A-3D54-455A-B2B0-1657C811396B"><p>To remove the updated policy data, uninstall the SIS package.
The policy database reverts to the default policy data. </p> </postreq>
</taskbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-EDA831F7-7248-5C00-B6BE-B7F44097C9B6.dita"><linktext>WhiteList/BlackList
TLD Services Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-E97C2A7E-8E8F-58E6-99D4-288589385B44.dita"><linktext>Querying
the TLD policy data</linktext></link>
</related-links></task>