<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task xml:lang="en" id="GUID-5CDD2D09-33B2-501B-A060-784C401CA373"><title>Building a ROM for Development Board Tutorial</title><shortdesc>This topic describes how to build the ROM for development board. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody><context><p>The <i>NetPerf</i> test suite is intended for Symbian OS v9.5 or later. The test can also run, with reduced functionality, on any release of Symbian OS since 9.1. Two options are involved in ROM creation, for example, vendor and hardware specific. The ROM is built for hardware reference boards. </p> </context> <steps id="GUID-0B3249E8-4187-5AF3-84D8-0F8CBFEA4404"><step id="GUID-4830D5F4-72F9-5183-B363-51E8E52FC639"><cmd>Copy the EPOC32 directory from the CD to the root drive of the Test Controller PC. </cmd> </step> <step id="GUID-9B38D9B9-E094-5E78-A497-F3769FBCAB1A"><cmd/><info>Compile the <codeph>iperfte</codeph> plug-in, <codeph>testexecute</codeph> and <codeph>ucc</codeph> components to build the ROM. The Buildcreates a core ROM IMG file. For more information about the build rom options, see the <xref href="GUID-4D55E43C-B203-5145-9105-D75660D02E3B.dita">reference page</xref>. </info> </step> </steps> <example><title>Building a ROM for Development Board example</title> <p>The following steps create a ROM: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-5C5F42E6-259B-5638-82A0-4E823414FD2D" xml:space="preserve">
rem - current path has to be in epoc32\rom
cd /D %EPOCROOT%epoc32\rom

rem – build ROM image
buildrom [macros] [feature manager options] [target device] techview.oby PlatSec.oby [components list] -osys$rom.bin

rem - delete old zipped image if exists
del [card drive]\sys$rom.zip
rem - zip the ROM image and copy it to flash card
zip sys$rom.zip sys$rom.bin
copy sys$rom.zip [card drive]

rem – now eject the cart clearly, either from the "Safely Remove Hardware"
rem - icon in the systray, or running some 3rd party tool such as:
rem - sync –e [card drive]
</codeblock> <p>The following code is an example of how to build a ROM for a fully automated test driven by <i>TestDriver</i>. It is a build for a H2 board and for Symbian OS v9.4 or earlier: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-8480AFD3-B8D5-5746-AD27-9237EFAB01AB" xml:space="preserve">
buildrom -D_SERIAL_DOWNLOAD -D_STARTUPMODE1 -DEXCLUDE_JAVA -DUSE_STRONG_CRYPTOGRAPHY h2 techview.oby
    PlatSec.oby NoWatcher.iby statauto.iby profiler.iby ether802.iby testexecute.iby ced.iby -osys$rom.bin
</codeblock> <p>The following code is an example for a H2 board and Symbian OS v9.5 or later. The ROM includes the <i>Delay meter</i> and not the <i>NetPerf</i>, <i>TEF</i> plug-in, which is transferred by <i>TestDriver</i>: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-EEF9B64D-64A5-5CE4-BDBF-0358D1D166F5" xml:space="preserve">
buildrom -D_SERIAL_DOWNLOAD -D_STARTUPMODE1 -DEXCLUDE_JAVA -DUSE_STRONG_CRYPTOGRAPHY -nofm h2
     techview.oby PlatSec.oby NoWatcher.iby statauto.iby profiler.iby ether802.iby testexecute.iby
     ced.iby netperfdelayplugin.iby -osys$rom.bin
</codeblock> <p>The following code is an example of how to build a ROM for a semi-automated test for a H4 board, with Symbian OS v9.5 environment. This includes the <i>Delay meter</i> library and extra utilities, for example, <codeph>ping</codeph>, <codeph>ipconfig</codeph> and <codeph>ceddump</codeph>: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-7D5139D7-8354-5DBE-B97C-F909312E4DDD" xml:space="preserve">
buildrom -D_SERIAL_DOWNLOAD -D_STARTUPMODE1 -DEXCLUDE_JAVA -DUSE_STRONG_CRYPTOGRAPHY -nofm
     h4hrp techview.oby PlatSec.oby NoWatcher.iby testexecute.iby netperf.iby ucc.iby ether802.iby
     profiler.iby ced.iby ceddump.iby -osys$rom.bin
</codeblock> </example> </taskbody><related-links><link href="GUID-D1B54263-1637-5D4E-8FE1-92612AB2851C.dita"><linktext>Network Performance Test</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-72F3CFD2-DDE4-56F1-907A-7C455BEDF674.dita"><linktext>Running the NetPerf Test
                Suite</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-C2125B4A-A945-529C-AA2F-BDD00EADF489.dita"><linktext>Configuring the
                Communications Database for the DUT</linktext> </link> </related-links></task>