<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-0847FB3A-5D9E-5CB9-91E9-1E2C4E7CE5BE"><title>Mobile TV Receiver Guide</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This guide gives you a general view of Mobile TV technology. </p> <section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The purpose of this tutorial is to introduce you to Mobile TV. </p> </section> <section><title>About Mobile TV in General:</title> <p><b>Introduction</b> </p> <p>Mobile TV Receiver is a small internal system but does so much more than traditional TV. It is broadcasted in a multi-grounded environment with high speed by using low battery power and low memory usage. </p> <p><b>What is Mobile TV?</b> </p> <p>Mobile TV is the transmission of TV programs or other services to a Mobile device. The programs can be transmitted as follows, depending on the technology: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-53F5AD29-8A8F-5449-8AD8-A7D433C1FBA5"><p>Broadcast mode: Transmission to every viewer in a coverage area. It can be also called multicast mode where transmission is done to a group of users. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-7648B9AF-3CB0-5D58-9738-D1D756B2EB25"><p>Unicast mode: Transmission to the user according to video on demand. </p> </li> </ul> <p>The broadcast transmissions can be through : </p> <ul><li id="GUID-382F375E-87A8-5C0F-8CCC-C246F050F39C"><p>Terrestrial medium just as analog or digital TV </p> </li> <li id="GUID-A4C77B4D-E875-5F02-BD58-E094F8F3641F"><p>High-powered satellites directly to mobiles </p> </li> </ul> <p><b>How is Mobile TV Different From Ordinary Terrestrial or satellite TV ?</b> </p> <p>Mobile TV technologies try to address the problem inherent in a mobile reception environment. Mobile environments are hostile to radio reception due to: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-8D3B9C45-8B30-5039-8A51-8C794B5D0690"><p>Movement (Doppler Effect) </p> </li> <li id="GUID-B93139F9-F588-59FD-A9C0-277D2A94B7A2"><p>Small antennae </p> </li> <li id="GUID-E3BEBC89-23B3-59B5-9D27-C04A436DB9D9"><p>Moving antennae </p> </li> <li id="GUID-1DC64741-113C-5189-90F4-9C7D4A2E9F7D"><p>Interference </p> </li> <li id="GUID-8A4C34BD-3325-583C-9E3F-FF654C74C0EC"><p>Charging location with respect to transmission source </p> </li> <li id="GUID-C5AE5F70-CE15-5C34-A4AE-E99D9F6A6466"><p>Low memory </p> </li> <li id="GUID-273A6373-6EFE-53C8-9209-9ECAAD79341C"><p>Small battery </p> </li> <li id="GUID-E221F901-478D-51A5-BDDF-0D97D87D85FE"><p>Small screen </p> </li> </ul> <p><b>New Growth Areas For Mobile TV</b> </p> <p>Mobile TV is in fact a part of the portfolio of multimedia services that can be delivered by the new generation of mobile networks. It is thus in company with other new services such as: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-0731ABD5-C254-5521-A986-08520654B795"><p>Video calling </p> </li> <li id="GUID-A48EECCB-5F8C-5E43-830B-547294E00ED9"><p>Audio and Video downloads </p> </li> <li id="GUID-C2AA5640-AA0B-5149-AABF-7C2E52178853"><p>Transfer videos, preparing and delivering presentations with it. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-0B820FD9-9679-5701-84BC-2C73D80DB142"><p>Video, audio and multimedia applications are configured to deliver live TV or video conferencing in mobile. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>Mobile TV Receiver Tutorials</title> <p>In terms of Symbian, Mobile TV means broadcast TV which provides a similar experience to users as their home digital TV. Standards plays an important role in mobile tv broadcasting. And data services are available for the standards. The reason for new mobile specific standards are as follows: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-2956DD87-69CF-5D5A-9AD6-112A354FD97B"><p>Mobile TV is portable and does not have large antennae unlike the normal digital TV. Therefore physical characteristics of transmission are designed with the help of new standards. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-A603DDA1-1F89-53D3-B8AA-98F8C957385F"><p>Power supply is limited, this is balanced using new standards. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-02AA3260-9D81-5633-B839-EAE94F8DFED0"><p>New standards support development of audio or video codecs. </p> </li> </ul> <p>Some of the mobile TV standards are as follows: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-F60C96F4-F078-5B47-B209-82B035971861"><p> <b>DVB-H</b> : </p> <p>Digital Video Broadcast-Handheld (DVB-H) is the mobile version of an international digital TV standard developed by <xref scope="external" href="http://www.dvb.org/">DVB Project</xref>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-AB6F3508-CC41-5554-A2D3-39D827BAB180"><p> <b>ISDB-T OneSeg </b> : ISDB-T OneSeg (Integrated Services Digital Broadcasting Terrestrial One Segment) is a Japanese TV standard . It is used for mobile TV broadcast and it is maintained by ARIB (Association of Radio Industries and Businesses). Brazil is also currently using ISDB-T but not the mobile OneSeg part. Commercial OneSeg transmissions is officially started in Japan recently. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-DB78A920-942E-50D3-8AE1-6998D6EEF8DB"><p> <b>T-DMB and S-DMB</b> : DMB (Digital Multimedia Broadcasting) is a South Korea TV standard which is an evolution of DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting). It has two variants T-DMB uses terrestrial broadcasting which means signal comes from broadcast towers on the ground; and S-DMB uses satellite broadcasting. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-ACB7F06E-7588-5529-86C5-05DA85AC0AF9"><p> <b>DAB-IP</b> : It uses existing DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting) transmitters simialr to DMB (Digital Multimedia Broadcasting). DAB-IP is currently used in UK by Virgin Mobile and BT Movio. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-AA6D735B-5A70-56C4-8A0A-6FAC7A3B8058"><p> <b>eDAB</b> : eDAB (extended DAB) is an extension to DAB broadcasting. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-8CF2E86A-91D9-564B-8E15-5254A676B549"><p> <b>MBMS</b> : MBMS (Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service) standard is defined by <xref scope="external" href="http://www.3gpp.org/">3GPP</xref>. It is attractive to mobile operators because it provides digital TV service using their existing infrastructure. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-C7A7A207-B59B-5AA0-8898-A0BFF54C2C37"><p> <b>FLO</b> : FLO (Forward Link Only) is a multicast digital TV system developed by Qualcomm. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-7D7DE70F-C19C-53F3-B20D-FC5D6BD75944"><p> <b>MediaFLO</b> : MediaFLO is Qualcomm's proprietary digital TV service that runs on FLO. MediaFLO device is produced by using Qualcomm hardware and software. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-F1EC809A-65CF-5717-9CBE-B8584B34B2E0"><p> <b>IPDC</b> : IPDC (IP Data Casting) is a bearers protocol stack which provides IP data. It was developed as part of DVB-H standard but can also be used with other bearers. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-A591B0C9-6241-5AA3-A5B6-D4047B62BFA6"><p> <b>OMA BCAST</b> : OMA BCAST (Open Mobile Alliance Broadcast) is IP based protocol stack that was developed by OMA. It can be used in conjunction with DVB-H and MBMS. Many big players perfers OMA BCAST rather than IPDC. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-0A2E11D5-D55B-58AC-BF13-107D905150D5"><p> <b>DXB</b> : DXB (Digital eXtended Broadcasting) is an attempt to harmonise multiple IP bearers like DVB-H, eDAB and MBMS, under IPDC or BCAST stacks. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>See also</title> <ul><li id="GUID-CDE6F8B9-1F8C-5E4E-B3F9-7CE1E1AE7BE8"><p>For more information about Mobile TV see, <xref scope="external" href="http://www.mobitv.com/">website for Mobile TV</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-B2A47961-C523-53DB-9988-367D0E0BB60B"><p>For more information about ISDB-T see, <xref scope="external" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISDB">Wikipedia on ISDB-T</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-64AAC791-985B-5F4B-B8B6-BA6AE45B0D6E"><p>For more information about OneSeg see, <xref scope="external" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1seg">Wikipedia on OneSeg</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-108476DC-07DB-5F5F-96AF-FBD2FCEC65AA"><p>For more information about DAB-IP see, <xref scope="external" href="http://news.zdnet.co.uk/communications/0,1000000085,39278508,00.htm">DAB-IP mobile TV standard</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-F50A2603-0C67-56B4-8686-1B7B177C1728"><p>For more information about T-DMB and S-DMB see, <xref scope="external" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_Multimedia_Broadcasting">Wikipedia on DMB</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-1C195138-0872-5886-BCEC-4FF5C7D78B65"><p>For more information about eDAB see, <xref scope="external" href="http://dxb.hhi.de/edab.html">eDAB offical website</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-4D497313-A402-5609-A982-3F80A72BCFB1"><p>For more information about FLO see, <xref scope="external" href="http://www.floforum.org/">FLO forum</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-405782AF-EE38-5220-8396-B3AC9CD4B428"><p>For more information about MediaFLO see, <xref scope="external" href="http://www.qualcomm.com/mediaflo/index.shtml">Qualcomms MediaFLo</xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-93DDA94E-90A4-547A-B1BC-D533043673D1"><p>For more information about DXB see, <xref scope="external" href="http://dxb.hhi.de/">DXB offical website</xref>  </p> </li> </ul> </section> </conbody></concept>