<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-CF6ED944-6BC6-51FA-9B05-6F799F06B44B" xml:lang="en"><title>Accepting
a Newly-Available Bearer</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This tutorial explains how to set the mobility policy handler component
to accept a newly-available bearer. </p>
<section><title>Procedure</title> <ol id="GUID-85E5C308-A6FB-5CFF-BB8A-4C1AEDB56B02">
<li id="GUID-99921C20-C4EC-569D-834A-930DD64FB62B"><p>Derive a class from
the <xref href="GUID-D3ED20A6-A16E-368E-98AD-820A469613EE.dita"><apiname>CImMobilityPolicyPlugin</apiname></xref> class. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-4D78F3E8-67CF-5B60-A359-2DCEDE038CFB"><p>Implement the <xref href="GUID-65871401-3D98-3B2B-9AA2-C7DB43F9AF57.dita"><apiname>PreferredCarrierAvailable</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-B145C26A-4765-31DA-8514-C4F0659FA71B.dita"><apiname>MigrationComplete</apiname></xref> functions in the derived <xref href="GUID-D3ED20A6-A16E-368E-98AD-820A469613EE.dita"><apiname>CImMobilityPolicyPlugin</apiname></xref> class
to get the required behaviour when a new bearer is available. </p> <p>When
a new bearer is available, the Network bearer mobility framework calls the <xref href="GUID-9A3979A9-F882-3053-B5B1-E0E125774271.dita#GUID-9A3979A9-F882-3053-B5B1-E0E125774271/GUID-E4D234C3-AEEA-3FE9-8E5D-6914BB60B174"><apiname>MMobilityProtocolResp::PreferredCarrierAvailable</apiname></xref> function
to notify the bearer mobility policy manager. This happens only if the bearer
mobility policy manager is registered with the <xref href="GUID-65871401-3D98-3B2B-9AA2-C7DB43F9AF57.dita"><apiname>PreferredCarrierAvailable</apiname></xref> (Network
bearer mobility framework) for bearer mobility notification. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B4476AE6-43CA-5242-B537-E101F3C94F78"><p>Call the <xref href="GUID-93466135-4C80-30B2-85C4-A045A7D34C6E.dita#GUID-93466135-4C80-30B2-85C4-A045A7D34C6E/GUID-511960C1-F9FC-3A25-9E89-977C43510C58"><apiname>CImMobilityManager::AcceptNewCarrier()</apiname></xref> function
on the instance of <xref href="GUID-93466135-4C80-30B2-85C4-A045A7D34C6E.dita"><apiname>CImMobilityManager</apiname></xref> identified in the <xref href="GUID-4D26288F-A8F8-355E-B49C-B313EEC04584.dita"><apiname>PreferredCarrierAvailable()</apiname></xref> function. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8645692F-7BFC-559D-8C60-B10FDF88417D"><p>Set the <xref href="GUID-93466135-4C80-30B2-85C4-A045A7D34C6E.dita#GUID-93466135-4C80-30B2-85C4-A045A7D34C6E/GUID-511960C1-F9FC-3A25-9E89-977C43510C58"><apiname>CImMobilityManager::AcceptNewCarrier()</apiname></xref> function
value to any of the following: </p><ul>
<li id="GUID-4894DA93-17E7-5C7B-8A00-82595DD43874"><p> <xref href="GUID-A3F52E3F-BC7F-3586-8529-290F679C1C59.dita"><apiname>KAcceptCompleteCurrent</apiname></xref> to
specify that any operations in progress should be allowed to continue before
migrating. </p><note><xref href="GUID-A3F52E3F-BC7F-3586-8529-290F679C1C59.dita"><apiname>KAcceptCompleteCurrent</apiname></xref> will not cancel
the server communication that is currently in progress. After the operation
is completed, the server MTM completes the user requested operation, logs
out from the remote server, and closes the session allowing the migration
to occur. </note> </li>
<li id="GUID-CD61D419-8D15-578F-B8DF-546F991B91F8"><p> <xref href="GUID-33265245-E8DA-39CF-B627-75BDF59FD644.dita"><apiname>KAcceptStopCurrent</apiname></xref> to
specify that any operations in progress should be stopped before migrating. </p> <note><xref href="GUID-33265245-E8DA-39CF-B627-75BDF59FD644.dita"><apiname>KAcceptStopCurrent</apiname></xref> will
not cancel server communication that is currently in progress. After the operation
is stopped, the server MTM logs out from the remote server, and closes the
session allowing the migration to occur.</note> </li>
<li id="GUID-7F1EBB9C-EFA7-5341-82EB-7B5D3342D5EE"><p> <xref href="GUID-11E0E18B-5656-349B-8F05-8C3E961B7AAF.dita"><apiname>KAcceptImmediately</apiname></xref> to
specify that the migration should be performed immediately. </p><note><xref href="GUID-11E0E18B-5656-349B-8F05-8C3E961B7AAF.dita"><apiname>KAcceptImmediately</apiname></xref> causes
the outstanding server communications to be cancelled, the session with the
remote server is dropped without logging out, and allows the migration to
occur.</note> </li>
</ul> </li>
</ol> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-24860917-0FE2-5C8F-B436-96928350996E.dita"><linktext>Bearer Mobility
 Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-93221B70-EB36-5E8E-AE23-700988D5DACB.dita"><linktext>Bearer Mobility
Policy Plug-in  Overview</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>