<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-F6C20181-0F03-5B8A-B548-C81FF8824503"><title>Working with Multiple Certificate Store Implementations </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>The Symbian certificate store architecture allows devices to have multiple, coexisting certstore implementations. All implementations are accessed through an abstraction layer: the unified certificate store. </p> <p> <codeph>certtool</codeph> fully supports multiple certstore implementations with the option <codeph>–store</codeph> which can be used to specify a particular certstore implementation which a command must use. To see a list of all available certstore implementations, use the command <codeph>–liststores</codeph> or <codeph>-ls</codeph> for short. For example: </p> <p><userinput>certtool –ls</userinput> </p> <p>This results in output similar to the following: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-16C78253-E33A-5C2C-8C78-7C28A7225DD4" xml:space="preserve">Total Number of Stores: 2
Total Number of Writable Stores: 1
Total Number of Read only Stores: 1
[0] Store Label: Software certificate store
Version: 1.00      Serial Number: 0      Manufacturer: Nokia Corporation   Store Type: ReadWrite
[1] Store Label: SWI cert store
Version: 1.00      Serial Number: N/A      Manufacturer: Nokia Corporation   Store Type: Read only</codeblock> <p>There is an entry for each certstore implementation. The numbers in brackets represent the certstore index which can refer to a specific certstore implementation in the <codeph>–store</codeph> option. In addition, there is a label, a human readable description of the implementation. Some meta-data is also present, such as the version, serial number, manufacturer and store type of a given implementation. </p> <p>With this knowledge, use the<codeph> –store</codeph> option to specify the certstore implementation a command must use. For instance if you want to list the content of the 2nd certstore implementation: </p> <p><userinput>certtool –store 1 –list</userinput> </p> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-88EC0D74-5595-5FA8-B7BA-B914CC8022FB.dita"><linktext>Listing Contents of Certificate Stores</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>