<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-30DFBCAD-6A9F-5209-8C40-AB246F54F960" xml:lang="en"><title> QoS
API Tutorial</title><shortdesc>How to use the <apiname>RSubConnection</apiname> API for QoS. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context id="GUID-54E41E79-A768-4599-B22B-40CBE4D909D9"><p>Quality of Service is implemented by setting parameters on a channel,
a sub-connection <xref href="GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF.dita"><apiname>RSubConnection</apiname></xref> within a connection <xref href="GUID-BED8A733-2ED7-31AD-A911-C1F4707C67FD.dita"><apiname>RConnection</apiname></xref>.</p></context>
<steps id="GUID-08112C18-3A2F-5624-BE17-AA20C4276104">
<step id="GUID-9D8E746E-B384-54A6-A6D4-2D5ECF882DC5"><cmd>Set parameters on
a channel that is a sub-connection, <xref href="GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF.dita"><apiname>RSubConnection</apiname></xref>. </cmd>
<info> <xref href="GUID-BED8A733-2ED7-31AD-A911-C1F4707C67FD.dita"><apiname>RConnection</apiname></xref> contains one or more sub-connections.
A default sub-connection is created automatically with the <xref href="GUID-BED8A733-2ED7-31AD-A911-C1F4707C67FD.dita"><apiname>RConnection</apiname></xref> and
any added <xref href="GUID-DE825FAA-102B-3E7A-80E6-BC226BD7E64F.dita"><apiname>RSubConnections</apiname></xref>. The <xref href="GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF.dita"><apiname>RSubConnection</apiname></xref> API
provides the functionality to divide a connection that is provided by the
RConnection API into channels. The channels have properties such as bandwidth
and latency. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-FB7F7F5A-498B-530B-9F45-EEEC17773A08"><cmd>Apply an <xref href="GUID-27AA9BD2-9754-3BAE-8C2D-59937E1924CF.dita"><apiname>RSubConParameterBundle</apiname></xref> to
the <xref href="GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF.dita"><apiname>RSubConnection</apiname></xref> to set the sub-connection properties. </cmd>
<info>The parameter bundle consists of families of parameters. A family is
a connected set of parameters, such as QoS. Two families are defined, Quality
of Service, <xref href="GUID-022ECBFB-911A-330B-B197-3BDAE6493981.dita"><apiname>KSubConQoSFamily</apiname></xref> and Authorisation, <xref href="GUID-B2567E44-BD9B-39B3-BB97-385124CFD973.dita"><apiname>KSubConAuthorisationFamily</apiname></xref>. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-5F819733-168B-5793-921E-8C752D382DE7"><cmd>Group the parameters
that apply to an <xref href="GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF.dita"><apiname>RSubConnection</apiname></xref> into <xref href="GUID-5181C974-94F7-3C7D-9FFE-F38BD11001EB.dita"><apiname>CSubConParameterFamily</apiname></xref> families. </cmd>
<info>Each parameter family contains parameter sets that are either generic
or extension. There is one generic parameter set in a family and zero or more
extension parameter sets. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-875333D1-493F-53BA-AB9F-891F73920E7F"><cmd>Each family of parameters
consists of the values <xref href="GUID-ADF08336-B43B-31CB-9548-E265E1001F27.dita"><apiname>ERequested</apiname></xref> and the minimum you want
to accept <xref href="GUID-754AF65B-376E-3A75-97F0-8ECF4560BCEF.dita"><apiname>EAcceptable</apiname></xref>. </cmd>
<info>If you do not specify the <xref href="GUID-754AF65B-376E-3A75-97F0-8ECF4560BCEF.dita"><apiname>EAcceptable</apiname></xref> then the <xref href="GUID-ADF08336-B43B-31CB-9548-E265E1001F27.dita"><apiname>ERequested</apiname></xref> is
used as the minimum acceptable. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-E9B31E46-CC7E-552E-8A79-8E3A803B5601"><cmd>When the parameters
are applied and the subconnection is used then the parameter family is updated
with a third set of values that is the <xref href="GUID-12DF975A-B43E-336F-817E-FDD099F7060A.dita"><apiname>EGranted</apiname></xref>. </cmd>
<info>The <xref href="GUID-12DF975A-B43E-336F-817E-FDD099F7060A.dita"><apiname>EGranted</apiname></xref> is between the <xref href="GUID-754AF65B-376E-3A75-97F0-8ECF4560BCEF.dita"><apiname>EAcceptable</apiname></xref> and
the <xref href="GUID-ADF08336-B43B-31CB-9548-E265E1001F27.dita"><apiname>ERequested</apiname></xref>. </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-A7588A14-75CF-59AA-90E4-6412FEF794E4"><cmd>An event is raised
to inform that the parameters are rejected or not granted. </cmd>
<info>This occurs after the initial request, asynchronous event notification
is used to inform the application what is negotiated. The application must
monitor for the granted or rejected event notification. </info>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody></task>