<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-E2252589-DCFB-5272-8FB3-701712D7F417" xml:lang="en"><title>Multimedia
Quick Start</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This document provides entry points for readers seeking to understand the
technology of the Symbian platform Multimedia module and its documentation. </p>
<p>Symbian platform phones are typically loaded with multimedia gadgets such
as cameras (for recording still and video images), radios, video and music
players. The Multimedia module provides a means of accessing and controlling
the hardware that drives these features. </p>
<section id="GUID-CA3522A7-66A7-5D62-B9BB-03993CD62884"><title>Getting started
with Multimedia</title> <p>Multimedia functionality is summarized below: </p> <p><b>Playing
and Recording audio and video</b> </p> <p>You can write applications to play
and record audio and video: </p> <p><b>Audio</b> </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-8A03FD08-FBFA-5B60-A898-41BB887ED991"><p>Play recorded audio
files from a device using <xref href="GUID-D62A282E-9DEA-5EF3-A606-20647BC5049D.dita">Audio
Client</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-1D730F97-1235-57DB-B05A-0E9E98EE3738"><p>Make audio recordings
from the device using <xref href="GUID-D62A282E-9DEA-5EF3-A606-20647BC5049D.dita">Audio
Client</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-570F84B8-FB2B-5441-B51A-223738580BFE"><p>Record streaming audio
using <xref href="GUID-715E0EA4-8B3D-5DDF-B773-922E367B114F.dita">Streaming Audio
Recorder</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-53C9CEEA-6C66-5F02-9DB8-DBB4E6B83333"><p>Play streaming audio
using <xref href="GUID-68417158-D625-56BF-BDD5-BE49A7651CED.dita">Streaming Audio
Player</xref>. </p> </li>
</ul> <p><b>Video</b> </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-B4110157-E99B-5DCF-8D62-BB1BB2AFACBF"><p>Play recorded video
files from a device using the <xref href="GUID-5F4510C9-5B16-593A-A225-37606800915B.dita">Video
Client</xref> video player. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7D0B1BF3-7A65-5DD9-B582-E8975DC46DF4"><p>Make video recordings
files from a device using the <xref href="GUID-18D7228F-A1E5-594A-B654-EF5D74CE17D2.dita">Video
Client</xref> video recorder. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-20F83D16-A8A5-5275-8752-4A9FBB25F60F"><p>Display subtitles artwork
on a video window using the <xref href="GUID-80E8BA3A-FDF3-50A5-BF44-181C40C31F09.dita">Video
Subtitle CRP</xref> component. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-1B6988C8-FB8E-518C-9AFF-AD0836D7A63E"><p>Create and destroy a
surface for video rendering using the <xref href="GUID-D1F29744-EB92-5811-A735-B0BC1B352ED5.dita">Video
Renderer</xref> component. </p> </li>
</ul> <p><b>Accessing multimedia hardware</b> </p> <p>Devices may include
the following hardware components: </p> <ul>

<li id="GUID-1C19D943-5F4F-5AAA-8595-751E14777492"><p>Camera - for capturing
still and video images using <xref href="GUID-36C3A2FD-F4F9-5B8C-91B7-40C29B3D2224.dita">Camera
Framework</xref>. </p> </li>
<li><p>Mobile TV receiver - for playing
or recording DVB-H mobile TV broadcasts using <xref href="GUID-893BFF74-5DBB-5606-96FC-F961A52CA90D.dita">Mobile
TV DVBH Receiver HAI Component</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p>Multimedia Device Framework (MDF)
- for loading, controlling, connecting and unloading audio, video and imaging
components using the <xref href="GUID-E5900ED5-C49E-52B2-AE6D-CC0DB1F234A1.dita">OpenMAX
IL Collection</xref>.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-081710DF-6E7E-5CA0-B043-DE1D66FB21C7"><p>Speech recognition -
for making requests from the MMF (Multimedia Framework) to the DevASR (DevSound
Automatic Speech Recognition), which are transported using the <xref href="GUID-3CA473CB-E79C-5B32-8B5B-F222B3DDEF3B.dita">Speech
Recognition Controller </xref> component. </p> </li>
<li><p>Hardware abstraction layer - for video playing and recording using
the <xref href="GUID-842D8124-554F-5D89-9E20-8B48EA539D2F.dita">Video HAI Component</xref></p></li>
</ul> <p><b>Manipulating images</b> </p> <p>Many of the most common image
manipulation techniques are provided: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-C1AC52E7-2A88-51F0-8485-A1FBFAA64320"><p>Image encoding and decoding
is provided using <xref href="GUID-3D9C4B45-EEA0-581C-A9E5-8B2535014930.dita">Image
Conversion</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8EE315BD-90E3-521D-BDEB-4FB3EA64069A"><p>Reading and editing
image metadata using the <xref href="GUID-FCEE832C-5D8D-5177-A86A-E10015EF77DC.dita">Exchangeable
image file format</xref> (Exif). </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-98F15E8A-59F8-5441-9FB5-58B2B5B378B7"><p>Image transformations
such as rotations, masking, mirroring flipping, stretching, resizing, and
many other common image transformation techniques are provided using <xref href="GUID-C0B39D73-0A3C-5289-A774-7BE590037404.dita">Bitmap Transformation</xref> and <xref href="GUID-6914EA3D-6FAB-52DD-A159-990F4ED892A2.dita">Image Transformation</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-ED0B62DA-B6CC-582E-BEE5-0645E735DBEC"><p>Processing an image
on a mobile device is provided using <xref href="GUID-0EBD074D-49E9-5E3E-9FA9-3484E968ABDB.dita">Image
Processor Library</xref>. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>Technologies</title> <p>The following is a list of technologies
used by Multimedia to enable various features: </p> <ul>
<li><p><b>DVB-H</b>- to receive Mobile
TV signals. </p></li>
<li id="GUID-93528CEA-86C0-54FD-9021-F1A279BD3C77"><p> <b>Exif</b> - to include
metadata for an image, such as, a time/date stamp, a description, GPS location
data, an embedded thumbnail. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-30C128FF-EBBA-5811-9817-472A82893920"><p> <b>Codecs</b> - to
deal with (playing, recording, streaming) audio and video data in one of the
many supported formats through the Symbian. </p> </li>



</ul> </section>
<section><title>Documentation and examples</title><p>The following sections
list tutorials and example applications that can be used to play and record
audio and video data, perform image processing and manipulation, and access
any camera and radio tuner hardware present on a mobile phone. </p><p><b>Tutorials</b></p><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-03D132BE-5B90-50E1-88D3-D66289C02444.dita">Audio Client
Tutorials</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-C2BF3044-CC37-554D-9496-C7B18AE94561.dita">Audio Input
Stream Tutorials</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-4D94A4B8-392D-5657-BD71-F1EA54318C47.dita">Audio Output
Stream Tutorials</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-F370A917-6963-58F6-8876-160A1DC42040.dita">Video Client
Library Tutorials</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-354240A8-2DDD-5181-9A36-9A054D239B62.dita">Video Subtitle
CRP Tutorial</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-55A1A47A-A7DD-5B1A-88E1-4818CB65B782.dita">Camera Library
Tutorials</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-B4783C5D-2653-5B92-AD0D-374A7AAA8EA4.dita">DVBH
Reciever Library Tutorials</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-786A8188-AB4D-5C65-8BEF-50E45FDBE9A5.dita">Image Conversion
Library Tutorials</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-26FD66B4-A291-5DAD-991D-40AB5316F30C.dita">Initializing
and Processing an Image Tutorial</xref></p></li>



</ul><p><b>Example applications</b></p><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-288C200C-760D-52A2-8FC7-E179E5FB1A2A.dita">Multimedia Example
Code</xref></p></li>
</ul></section>
</conbody></concept>