<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-176913BA-3877-58E2-9E12-3606EE697813" xml:lang="en"><title> Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This document introduces to the Advanced Camera Settings library in Ecam.
The Advanced Camera Settings library is used by application developers to
enable camera users to configure camera settings and by device creators to
define default and mandatory software and hardware configuration settings. </p>
<section id="GUID-8042E290-802C-44BB-93F3-538AB726E43C"><title>Purpose</title> <p>Advanced Camera Settings provides domain
specific getters and setters for well known camera hardware settings. Image
or video format, sizes and video frame rates are already well defined in the
general <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita"><apiname>CCamera</apiname></xref> API. </p> <p><b>Advanced
Camera Settings Library Details</b> </p> <p>The DLL that provides the functionality
and the library to which your code must link is identified below. </p> <table id="GUID-9C053250-4959-5DB9-9646-6E50A3EDDE87">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>DLL</entry>
<entry>LIB</entry>
<entry>Short Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>ecamadvsettings.dll </entry>
<entry>ecam.lib </entry>
<entry><p>These files are used for implementing the Advanced Settings. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
<section id="GUID-7AEE09BE-2952-4FA2-8522-A4ED0B2DAC62"><title>Architectural Relationship</title> <p>The Advanced Settings
is a part of the camera component. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-978DA3BF-7EFF-471A-95F2-1D4C3381A026"><title>Description</title> <p>The advanced settings class, <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita#GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4/GUID-E31AEB11-B7A0-3637-BB31-866306F78118"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraAdvancedSettings</apiname></xref>,
provides access to common camera hardware settings related to image acquisition
for still images and video. </p> <p>To allow the settings to be both flexible
and rich enough to work with different camera hardware, settings are identified
by UID values. You can get a list of UIDs of the supported and currently active
settings, so that a user interface of the available options can be updated
accordingly. The class also allows the range of possible values for a setting
to be obtained. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-60DCE23C-D5B6-459B-A066-C5338A42184A"><title>Key Advanced Settings API Classes</title> <p>The key classes
that make up the Advanced Settings are as follows: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-64ACC4F4-4001-573D-B561-A1DBC1A1C3BD"><p> <xref href="GUID-055FE6AE-0489-325A-BC84-C387E946D50D.dita"><apiname>MCameraPresets</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-D54D56F3-0666-51FF-8A5C-17A9822FB1B0"><p> <xref href="GUID-8B30B504-513B-387D-9389-4C26DCEE8372.dita"><apiname>MCameraAdvancedSettings</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-FB3E0B7F-5815-5D4B-B8E6-C1F6CF87D53F"><p> <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita#GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4/GUID-E31AEB11-B7A0-3637-BB31-866306F78118"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraAdvancedSettings</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-60479960-CE90-483A-9E7D-B64D545F7CB3"><title>Using Advanced Camera Settings</title> <p>Clients can use
the Advanced Settings to: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-81F86379-88CF-522B-81C3-C0D6E34C1023"><p>Build up a configuration
set for a camera including: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-61F644CD-BC21-51BF-A976-EE340AF19350"><p>Camera type. <xref href="GUID-E31AEB11-B7A0-3637-BB31-866306F78118.dita#GUID-E31AEB11-B7A0-3637-BB31-866306F78118/GUID-6C99156B-A23F-32C8-AA84-F7005EDEBD3E"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraAdvancedSettings::TCameraType</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-24923284-C4D4-5910-A990-7B3725A8DC7F"><p>Stabilization mode. <xref href="GUID-E31AEB11-B7A0-3637-BB31-866306F78118.dita#GUID-E31AEB11-B7A0-3637-BB31-866306F78118/GUID-48DF3436-E92C-341B-ABA2-73B7A32CEDCD"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraAdvancedSettings::TStabilizationMode</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0370445E-0DFF-5BB6-B1FA-BD8991529898"><p>Focus Mode. <xref href="GUID-E31AEB11-B7A0-3637-BB31-866306F78118.dita#GUID-E31AEB11-B7A0-3637-BB31-866306F78118/GUID-877A6E33-8F63-3EFC-8D8C-F77857457B80"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraAdvancedSettings::TFocusMode</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F09295E4-82A7-5D23-B2B6-0E29E6B3EF60"><p>plus several other configuration
specifiers such as <xref href="GUID-FAF63EED-08F8-3374-AFF6-4FBD6F17CD3F.dita"><apiname>TDriveMode</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-BF21D32B-91D3-321D-A900-96F6FC61D414.dita"><apiname>TBracketMode</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-69C6A109-EF78-3A36-9E77-2B2007477B6B.dita"><apiname>TPictureOrientation</apiname></xref> and
several others. </p> </li>
</ul> </li>
<li id="GUID-056CAC6B-4A4E-5A95-8988-0FB9E3C298F7"><p>List the UIDs of the
supported and currently active settings, so that the user interface can be
updated accordingly. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-58963101-6552-5FCD-AD8A-C94705F71279"><p>Support the continuous
digital zooming functionality. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-565B80CB-0F0A-4E46-B05F-4B3718DCD7E4"><title>See also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-36C3A2FD-F4F9-5B8C-91B7-40C29B3D2224.dita">Overview</xref> of
Camera Framework </p> <p><xref href="GUID-6A7F8298-F3E9-513C-8C1F-D057AC62E5E3.dita">Advanced
Settings for Focus, Drive Modes, and Bracket Modes</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-82B8C95E-F7E7-59C2-A71A-4C882653D555.dita">Continuous
Digital Zooming</xref>  </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>