<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-81238E98-755C-5E86-ADEA-6A675E058289" xml:lang="en"><title>User
Prompt Service Configuration</title><shortdesc>This topic shows how to enable and disable the user prompt service
to authorise the client application requests. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>

<section id="GUID-3F202B8F-AA4E-5096-8482-5BA11DE8F351"><title>Introduction</title> <ul>
<li id="GUID-F9958A4D-CF19-5EEE-9F11-6DFE81EE37D2"><p>The user prompt service
can be disabled by a patchable constant. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A49A6D54-96EC-5474-980A-E61D4878A58A"><p>The user prompt service
can be configured to grant access to all network connection requests from
applications running in a particular process, provided that the user has authorised
the connection in a previous request from the same process. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2BCDF4E6-8123-51B2-B544-67785BE71B14"><p>The user prompt service
can be configured for the duration of a network connection. All applications
running within any given process are granted access, provided the user has
authorised the connection in a previous request for the network duration. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-1A4C75E8-4A7E-58C7-92D1-195E784F8A2A"><p>The user prompt service
can be configured to use either the <codeph>techview</codeph> notifier or
the <codeph>networking text</codeph> notifier. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<example id="GUID-30D41411-1500-5BF4-BEEC-882AC90020D6"><title>Emulator configuration
example</title> <p>When using an emulator the user prompt service can be configured
in the <codeph>epoc.ini</codeph> file in the following way: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-CA580B20-75DC-53E1-BF48-83E5B35A7E54" xml:space="preserve">
NETWORKING_UPS_DISABLE=0  #UPS functionality is enabled
NETWORKING_UPS_DISABLE=1  #UPS functionality is disabled
NETWORKING_UPS_DISABLE=2  #epoc32\winscw\c\private\101f7989\esock\netups.ini is parsed to determine 
                          # whether UPS functionality is enabled or not.


NETWORKING_UPS_SESSION=0  #netups component operates in process life time mode
NETWORKING_UPS_SESSION=1  #netups component operates in network life time mode
NETWORKING_UPS_SESSION=2  #epoc32\winscw\c\private\101f7989\esock\netups.ini is parsed to determine the   
                           netups operates on process or network life time mode.


NETWORKING_UPS_NOTIFIERUID = 0x10285887  #network text notifier will be used provided that "startupmode=1"
                                         #is also specified in epoc.ini.

NETWORKING_UPS_NOTIFIERUID = 0x1028369b  #default techview  notifier will be used.</codeblock> <p> <i>Note:
If NETWORKING_UPS_NOTIFIERUID is not defined and startup mode is '1', then
the networking text notifier is used. For all other startup modes the default
techview notifier is used. </i>  </p> <p>To specify whether an application
is authorised for process duration or network duration, the <codeph>netups.ini</codeph> file
is configured as follows: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-3CB25BBC-21F5-5044-8415-6A1F0F0ACBBC" xml:space="preserve">[upsIpMode]

NETWORKING_UPS_DISABLE= 0     # UPS functionality is enabled
NETWORKING_UPS_DISABLE= 1     # UPS functionality is disabled

NETWORKING_UPS_SESSION= 0     # process life time  mode
NETWORKING_UPS_SESSION= 1     # network  life time mode</codeblock> <p>If <codeph>NETWORKING_UPS_DISABLED</codeph> is
not specified in either <codeph>epoc.ini</codeph> or <codeph>netups.ini</codeph>,
then by default UPS prompting is enabled. If <codeph>NETWORKING_UPS_SESSION</codeph> is
not configured in either file then the netups component works in process life
time mode. </p> </example>
<section id="GUID-707D78AA-57DD-5E30-B9D6-691D9E763BEF"><title>Hardware configuration
example</title> <p>When building the Symbian platform for targert
hardware, the user prompt service can be configured through patchable constants. </p> <p>Patchable
constants are used to define the whether the UPS component is enabled or disabled,
and whether the netups component is working in process or network lifetime
mode. These constants are defined when the ROM is built using the following
command line arguments: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-62A72221-6690-50D6-A271-04BB8CA61E2F" xml:space="preserve">buildrom.cmd -DNETWORKING_UPS_SESSION=1  (followed by other command line arguments)</codeblock> <p>where 0 = process life time, 1 = network life time, 2 = read from netups.ini,
as described above </p> <codeblock id="GUID-5BCC8797-2D03-57FC-9822-90198155AA3B" xml:space="preserve">buildrom.cmd -DNETWORKING_UPS_DISABLED=1 (followed by other command line arguments)</codeblock> <p>where 0 = disabled, 1= disabled, 2 = read from netups.ini, as described
above) </p> <codeblock id="GUID-3FC25EEE-1932-5EFF-BE2D-505DCDBB3AB3" xml:space="preserve">buildrom.cmd -DNETWORKING_UPS_NOTIFIERUID= 0x10285887 (followed by other command line arguments)</codeblock> <p>where <codeph>-DNETWORKING_UPS_NOTIFIERUID=0x10285887</codeph> means
the networking text notifier is used, otherwise the default techview notifier
is used. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>