<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-0E0D4E95-470F-54BE-8DCB-719976C8B84C" xml:lang="en"><title>What
is Contention Management?</title><shortdesc>This topic describes contention management and the contention management
process flow. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>When a contention issue arises the Access Point priorities of the incoming
connection and the existing connections are compared. If the incoming Access
Point has a higher priority than an existing Access Point the existing Access
Point connection is stopped and the new Access Point connection is started.
If the incoming Access Point priority is lower than or equal to an existing
Access Point connection the incoming Access Point is ignored. </p>
<section><title>Contention Management Process Flow</title> <p>This section
outlines the contention management process flow and the associate components. </p> <p>The
following diagram describes the Contention Management Process Flow. </p><p>The following steps describe what happens when a PDP context contention issue
occurs in the system: </p> <ol>
<li id="GUID-F614DD0D-491E-4E4A-B255-90A50B0CAB8E"><p>The PDP Meta-Connection Provider (MCPR) of the starting connection
calls the <codeph>HandleContentionL</codeph> function of the PDP Tier Manager.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-E77116E5-E364-47CF-9878-502DD869804A"><p>The PDP Tier Manager has an <codeph>iPDPContentionManagement</codeph> instance
of the <codeph>CPDPContentionManagement</codeph> class. The contention request
is added to <codeph>iPDPContentionManagement</codeph>. </p></li>
<li id="GUID-8DAF207F-3320-4DF4-A69E-9824DA800D12"><p>The ContentionManager starts processing the asynchronous contention
request. The priorities assigned to all active connections in the system are
extracted from the MCPR Access Points. The ContentionManager delivers the
extracted priorities to the Contention Management Activity. </p></li>
<li id="GUID-D1DD47FC-F6EA-4F00-A684-FE67DC02AE26"><p>The existing connection priorities are compared with the new connection
priority and one of the following occurs:</p></li>
<li id="GUID-0254D697-B9B0-4D24-8262-BB94C3294016"><p>If the priority of the new connection is lower than those of the existing
connection, the new connection is not permitted.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-D1A41F47-9CFA-4755-BA82-DC05E6F100A7"><p>If the priority of the new connection is higher than one of the existing
connections, the lowest priority connection is stopped and the new connection
is permitted and started.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-E4E8C34B-5305-46B3-AB17-F1CEB6BC741F"><p>Each connection relates to a single application on the mobile device.
One of the following occurs when the connection and application is terminated: </p></li>
<li id="GUID-54B99BA1-16C3-45FC-8400-C37F354B651A"><p>If the application that uses the stopped connection is contention-aware
it calls <codeph>RConnection::Start()</codeph> with the <codeph>TConnAutStartPref</codeph> parameter.
The application starts when the contention is finished.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-BD9CF0F3-D080-42AE-BA18-537E8DA9AD35"><p>If the application that uses the stopped connection is not contention-aware
a disconnection notification is sent to the user without an error message
stating why the connection stopped. </p></li>
</ol></section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-CD57B3EB-B8FD-53CE-B319-FB6275BE391E.dita"><linktext>What is Contention?</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-FF81C5C5-09B7-5194-928E-0BA87417B2CD.dita"><linktext>What are
Access Point                 Priorities?</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>