<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-E41CF544-DCD3-4931-B7C3-CE9BE6E195E1" xml:lang="en"><title>Blinking
the lights</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context><p>The <codeph>LightBlinkL()</codeph> method call makes the specified
target light to blink. Multiple light targets can be specified by using bitwise-or.</p><p>The
following code snippet demonstrates how to make lights blink for infinite
duration, with default intensity for multiple targets.</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">iLight-&gt;LightBlinkL( CHWRMExtendedLight::EPrimaryDisplay | CHWRMExtendedLight::EPrimaryKeyboard );</codeblock><p>The following code snippet demonstrates how to make lights blink for the
specified duration, with default intensity for one target.</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">// aDuration = 5000 milliseconds
light-&gt;LightOnL( CHWRMExtendedLight::ESecondaryDisplay, 5000 );</codeblock><p>After
the duration expires, if there are no previous infinite time duration call
in this session, the light state for target is changed to whatever state was
caused by the last infinite time duration call, or default state determined
by inactivity timer.</p><p>The following code snippet demonstrates how to
switch ON lights for the specified duration, with specified intensity for
one target. (On-cycle and off-cycle times of the blinking can also be controlled):</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">// aDuration = 5000 milliseconds
// aOnDuration = 500 milliseconds
// aOffDuration = 500 milliseconds
// aIntensity = 30, intensity can be between KHWRMLightMinIntensity and KHWRMLightMaxIntensity, inclusive.
light-&gt;LightOnL( CHWRMExtendedLight::ESecondaryDisplay, 5000, 500, 500, 30 );</codeblock><p>For
device default cycle duration, use the value <codeph>KHWRMDefaultCycleTime</codeph>.
If either <codeph>aOnDuration</codeph> or <codeph>aOffDuration</codeph> is <codeph>KHWRMDefaultCycleTime</codeph>,
both must be <codeph>KHWRMDefaultCycleTime</codeph>.</p><note> Some devices
may not support variable blink cycle times, in which case default value is
substituted. All devices may not support user-defined intensity, in which
case the device behaves in its default state.</note></context>
</taskbody></task>