<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-9540A82E-F83D-55F5-B441-868CF77468E9"><title>Media Driver Overview</title><shortdesc>This document describes the media drivers used in Symbian OS. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><section><title>Purpose</title> <p id="GUID-CFED15B1-E768-534E-9043-7AADE45EE9AF"> Provides an interface between the peripherals and the kernel. </p> </section> <section><title>Required background</title> <p>This section discusses what you need to do to write or port a media driver. It assumes that you are familiar with the Symbian OS device driver model. </p> </section> <section><title>Key concepts and terms</title> <dl><dlentry><dt>Physical Device Driver (PDD)</dt> <dd><p>Physical Device Driver is a driver that is specific to one type of a device. </p> </dd> </dlentry> <dlentry><dt>NAND</dt> <dd><p>NAND is a device that contains NAND flash memory or NAND flash controller. </p> </dd> </dlentry> <dlentry><dt>MultimediaCard (MMC)</dt> <dd><p>The MultiMediaCard (MMC) is a flash memory card standard. </p> </dd> </dlentry> </dl> </section> <section><title>Architecture</title> <p>The media driver is a special form of physical device driver. The class <xref href="GUID-A0D4EB25-0BA4-39EE-874B-465EB9628DCC.dita"><apiname>DMediaDriver</apiname></xref> is the abstract base class from which all the media drivers are derived. These media drivers have associated libraries that manage storage media hardware. Some media drivers have platform specific layers that a base port can implement for particular type of storage hardware. The media drivers are loaded and used by file server. </p> </section> <section><title>Media Drivers Summary</title> <p>Media drivers provides the following physical device drivers for the user: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-7DE4C0BD-3C5F-56A2-9F25-862BCF48C956"><p> <b>Internal RAM Drive Media Driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>medint.pdd</filepath>  </p> <p>Internal Ram Drive media driver is a physical device driver meant for growing and shrinking the RAM drive. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-D9930EA1-CC68-58E6-8B48-722AFC0750D7"><p> <b>ATA Card Media Driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>medata.pdd</filepath>  </p> <p>ATA Card media driver is a physical driver to access ATA cards. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-3607FA5E-AC5C-5716-867B-B665872DA047"><p> <b>MultiMediaCard Media Driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>medmmc.pdd</filepath>  </p> <p>MultiMediaCard media driver is a physical driver which requests services from the MultiMediaCard controller. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-0304B5F7-7256-5160-9F52-C97FE8B6C2D4"><p> <b>Nand Media Driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>mednand.pdd</filepath>  </p> <p>NAND media driver is a physical device driver to access the NAND device. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-8F6BB0BC-CEBB-5807-B481-253C50750328"><p> <b>LFS Media Driver</b>  </p> <p> <filepath>medlfs.pdd</filepath>  </p> <p>The LFS media driver is a physical device driver that reads and writes to NOR type flash memory. </p> </li> </ul> </section> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-E21C4AF8-852A-5BBD-A92A-5473D1DFFBB1.dita"><linktext>Media Driver
                Tutorial</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>