<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-CDDC6DBD-560B-4602-815C-FE3FCDA09AD5" xml:lang="en"><title>Running
Tests using TestDriver</title><shortdesc/><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<steps id="GUID-4DD07DEC-6017-4237-BE46-1D69E5FBD744-GENID-1-12-1-13-1-1-10-1-3-1-4-1-4-1-5-1-5-1-3-1">
<step id="GUID-9A69E5AD-E938-4092-A8C2-CB65C37C8962-GENID-1-12-1-13-1-1-10-1-3-1-4-1-4-1-5-1-5-1-3-1-1"><cmd>Install STAT to
enable the Communication between the PC and the device under test. </cmd>
</step>
<step id="GUID-444100DE-25A7-4454-9BD3-89B98E0F5EB6"><cmd/>
<info><p>If you are using ARMv5, the hardware reference board (for example,
H4) must be connected to the PC through USB, serial cable, BT or TCP/IP connection.
TestDriver uses STAT application on the device to communicate with the PC
and the device. For more details, refer to <i>Symbian Verification Suite »
TestDriver » Using TestDriver » Communicating with the device.</i>  </p> <p>The
ROM image is built on the PC and transferred to the hardware board using a
MMC card. </p> </info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-BAF501D8-8E23-4893-A693-7E2C8CFB22DC"><cmd>Configure the TestDriver using the automated scripts located at <filepath>…\syslibsapitest\syslibssvs\group\</filepath></cmd>
<info><p><userinput>testdriversetup </userinput></p><p><filepath>testdriversetup.bat</filepath> calls <filepath>testdriversetup.pl</filepath> which
applies an appropriate set of configuration parameters.</p></info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-9ADB9699-F83F-42CF-9D3B-8199D7D65EDF"><cmd/>
<info><p>Build test code using the following command: </p> <p><userinput>testdriver
build –p &lt;winscw/armv5&gt; –b &lt;urel/udeb&gt; –s syslibs[.ecom[.&lt;test suite
name &gt;]]</userinput> </p> <p> <b>Note:</b> You can execute TestDriver commands
from any location. </p> <p>For the SysLibs testdriver test suite structure,
refer to <i>Building and Execution</i> section. </p></info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-6CB8427A-44BE-4C5A-BEEE-CCA581DCC910"><cmd/>
<info><p>If you are using ARMv5, build the ROM image using the following command: </p> <p><userinput>buildrom
-D_STARTUPMODE2 -D_EABI=ARMV5 -DRVCT -DUSE_STRONG_CRYPTOGRAPHY &lt;h2/h4hrp&gt;
techview_statapi</userinput> </p></info>
</step>
<step id="GUID-EBFFC157-E016-4706-ACBE-C3390EDC9CFB"><cmd>Run the tests.</cmd>
<info><p><b>For ARMv5: </b></p><p>Run the following command:</p><p><userinput>testdriver
run -t &lt;transport service used&gt;</userinput></p><p>Transport service used
can be “serial&lt;COM port number that is connected to the board&gt;”,  “bt&lt;COM
port number for BT dongle&gt;”, or “usb&lt;mapped port number&gt;.”</p><p><b>For
WINSCW</b>:</p><p>Run the following command:</p><p><userinput>testdriver run</userinput> </p></info>
<info><p><b>Note</b>: All scripts and test data are automatically removed
from the system drive of the device under test after the execution.</p></info>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody></task>