<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-5B1D8D9C-90EF-5FCC-8D7D-01B13D6C2E68" xml:lang="en"><title>Nanokernel</title><shortdesc>The nanokernel is the core of the Kernel, and is a small real-time
operating system (RTOS) designed to run Symbian platform.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>A <xref href="GUID-2700AAC8-A034-5E7D-B0E0-26B49E68BB18.dita">Personality Layer
for Real Time Applications</xref> is a client of the nanokernel, and this
topic is intended for writers of personality layers. </p>
<section id="GUID-B8D8C73E-75CB-417D-A6DA-EE8B77A28256"><title>Nanokernel threads</title> <p>The fundamental unit of execution
is the nanokernel thread, an <xref href="GUID-187D314F-1115-3671-AC46-37AEC5DFB2AC.dita"><apiname>NThread</apiname></xref> object. </p> <p>A
nanokernel thread has an integer priority, between 0 and 63 inclusive, and
is scheduled according to priority, the highest priority first. Equal priority
threads are scheduled on either a round robin or a run-to-completion basis,
selectable for each thread. For round robin scheduling, the time slice is
selectable for each thread. </p> <p>Priority 0 is reserved for the system
idle thread. </p> <p>Priorities 1-27 inclusive, and priority 48 are currently
used by Symbian platform threads; 12 is the priority of the foreground Symbian
platform application. There are, therefore, 35 distinct priorities that are
totally unused and available for a real time application. </p> <p>Nanokernel
threads may be created and destroyed dynamically, but the nanokernel does
not do any memory management. Memory for both the thread object and the thread
stack must be provided by the caller at create time. In fact the same rule
applies throughout the nanokernel - all memory for dynamically created objects
must be provided by the caller and freed by the caller after object destruction. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-45416245-24B2-40FA-98C2-94C29F94A200"><title>Nanokernel synchronisation</title> <p>The nanokernel provides
the following synchronisation objects: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-F94065EB-10A6-51A8-8B11-A0B887B994C6"><p>A fast semaphore, a <xref href="GUID-22982E51-E746-37CB-9672-97B58C2672BF.dita"><apiname>NFastSemaphore</apiname></xref> object.
This is a lightweight counting semaphore owned by a specific nanokernel thread.
Any thread can signal it, but only the owning thread can wait on it. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-CFA09EAD-34FE-5F41-83D5-52381B4A6C81"><p>A fast mutex, a <xref href="GUID-D5B555DA-3D17-3ED2-A931-CB35BD93A953.dita"><apiname>NFastMutex</apiname></xref> object.
This is a lightweight mutual exclusion primitive. It is optimised for very
fast acquisition and release in the case where there is no contention, and
it provides priority inheritance. It is non-nestable, i.e. a thread is not
allowed to hold two fast mutexes simultaneously or to wait on one which it
already holds. In addition, a thread that holds a fast mutex cannot block
on any other wait object. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-598F43D7-0517-5866-85BF-6E7D67C5CFDE"><p>Deferred function calls
(DFCs). </p> </li>
</ul> <p>There is also the option of thread synchronisation by doing one of: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-F3DBBDC5-1245-5C74-A02B-39FC5EFF8484"><p>disabling interrupts,
by calling <xref href="GUID-3A3C08F3-3D33-3D9E-80E7-7855C7B21E02.dita#GUID-3A3C08F3-3D33-3D9E-80E7-7855C7B21E02/GUID-8C251C65-FDE7-3161-8D2B-61401FB6487F"><apiname>NKern::DisableAllInterrupts()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-869B40AF-9311-5539-8F5F-AFF1BF6F56F6"><p>disabling preemption,
by calling <xref href="GUID-3A3C08F3-3D33-3D9E-80E7-7855C7B21E02.dita#GUID-3A3C08F3-3D33-3D9E-80E7-7855C7B21E02/GUID-7CBBF72B-4519-38DD-92CA-38AF636AFD8A"><apiname>NKern::Lock()</apiname></xref> </p> </li>
</ul> <p>However, these two techniques must be used with caution as they affect
all parts of the system. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-640C747E-6A7B-47B3-BC05-84A10DAE484F"><title>Scheduling threads following a hardware interrupt</title> <p>In
order to keep interrupt latency to a minimum the vast majority of the nanokernel
runs with interrupts enabled; this includes the scheduler and other code which
manipulates the thread ready list. A consequence of this is that it is <i>not</i> permissible
for an interrupt service routine (ISR) to add a thread to the thread ready
list. The only way an ISR can influence the scheduling of threads is by means
of an Immediate Deferred Function Call (IDFC). </p> <p>An IDFC is a function
call that runs either: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-4324A39E-D9F9-5F21-93BA-8014B39D17A0"><p>immediately after the
completion of the ISR, and any other ISRs that are pending. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>or </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-BAA5895F-DBBC-5B42-B57A-5AF4DEC90824"><p>as soon as preemption
is re-enabled, if preemption was disabled at the time the interrupt occurred. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>IDFCs run in FIFO order, i.e. the first one queued is first one to
run, with interrupts enabled and preemption disabled. This means that IDFCs
cannot be preempted either by threads or by other IDFCs, but only by ISRs.
However, they can add threads to the ready list and thus cause rescheduling. </p> <p>As
IDFCs are nonpreemptive, they need to be kept short. This means that they
affect thread latency. If a large amount of work needs to be done in response
to an ISR, then a Deferred Function Call (DFC) should be used. </p> <p>A DFC
is a function call that runs in the context of a nominated thread. A DFC is
associated with a DFC queue, which in turn is associated with a thread. The
thread simply waits forever for a DFC to be added to the queue and then calls
back the DFC. DFCs execute with both interrupts and preemption enabled. Because
DFCs are so common in Symbian platform driver code, the nanokernel provides
a shortcut to allow them to be queued directly by ISRs instead of by an IDFC.
The same object, a <xref href="GUID-A14562A5-3E91-3113-AB3C-71DBEA9D58EB.dita"><apiname>TDfc</apiname></xref>, is used for both IDFCs and DFCs.
When this object is queued by an ISR, it first executes as an IDFC; the code
for this IDFC is buried in the nanokernel. This code transfers the object
to the final DFC queue and wakes up the DFC thread as required. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-1EB1E07D-433B-4058-9CE3-4825A8945704"><title>Nanokernel thread handlers</title> <p>Each nanokernel thread
can have the following handlers defined: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-A52FA56C-D5CF-5186-A3A4-09941C17C0E0"><p>Exit handler. This is
called in the context of the exiting thread just before it is terminated. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-66E53EEE-B076-5116-AA72-CDE4EE19315D"><p>Exception handler. This
is called if a CPU exception occurs during the execution of the thread; it
is called, in the context of the thread. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8369C8AD-C9C1-505D-89F3-983F23009F9B"><p>Time-out handler. This
is called if the thread's wait time-out expires with the thread in the BLOCKED
state, or in an unknown state. It is called in the context of the nanokernel
timer thread, DFC Thread 1, with preemption enabled. It is used in Symbian
platform wait-with-timeout operations. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7665E6CA-8BB4-5F1B-8CEB-DA5F59D77619"><p>State handler. <i>This
is the fundamental hook used for personality layers.</i>. It is called if: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-7996AB09-C5DF-520E-ADBB-B65AF9EC536F"><p>the thread is suspended </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-39CC9F5E-663F-5BAD-8D04-55E698F7D405"><p>the thread is resumed </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-4DE5F701-EA02-5C43-896D-38202F9CB8EE"><p>the thread is released </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-EA3FCFAF-890B-537B-BE1F-F605B19BF9B5"><p>the thread has its priority
changed </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-63E0ABEB-2878-5F4D-92CB-AF2EB28D2A54"><p>the thread's wait timeout
expires and there is no time-out handler and the thread is in an unrecognised
nanokernel state. </p> </li>
</ul> </li>
</ul> <p>See also <filepath>...\e32\personality\example\personality.cpp</filepath>. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-600F44F2-9F2D-409A-9D66-10526319020C"><title>Timer management </title> <p>The nanokernel provides a basic
relative timer object, an <xref href="GUID-D8CF05A3-5C9B-3662-92DA-3290C6EE7FD2.dita"><apiname>NTimer</apiname></xref>, which can generate either
one-shot or periodic interrupts. </p> <p>A time-out handler is called when
the timer expires, either from the timer ISR or from the nanokernel timer
thread. Timer objects may be manipulated from any context. The timers are
driven from a periodic system tick interrupt, usually a 1ms period. </p> <p>For
the purposes of power management, an API is provided to return the number
of ticks left until the next timer expiry, thus enabling the tick interrupt
to be suppressed and a deep sleep mode to be entered. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>