<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-D7CA0388-B47F-587C-87BF-D39AF38ACE73"><title>What is the Packet Quality of Service ?</title><shortdesc>The packet Quality of Service (QoS) encapsulates functions to configure the QoS options for a particular context in GSM networks or service configuration in CDMA networks. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>QoS parameters refer the parameters like minimum throughput rates, requested throughput rates, maximum delay and accepted loss rate. </p> <p>This functionality is implemented by the <xref href="GUID-0712C389-1D3B-3CA5-9602-A3D9128DBD13.dita"><apiname>RPacketQoS</apiname></xref> class. A context and service configuration is represented by the <xref href="GUID-1CD9122E-B077-39FD-8CAE-45A6AF8F345F.dita"><apiname>RPacketContext</apiname></xref>. </p> <section id="GUID-93545079-1C77-50AE-A49F-F5E3F6A2BD7D"><title>Packet QoS functions</title> <p>The packet QoS provides the client applications the following functions: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-D83881B2-2C96-55EC-B032-96700649BFAC"><p>to set the minimum and requested QoS profile parameters </p> </li> <li id="GUID-16A2D3A5-3B18-577D-9C34-B71986FC899D"><p>to get the negotiated QoS profile parameters </p> </li> <li id="GUID-B0DFEA60-51C0-5BFC-8F45-F0321F0FD087"><p>to query the QoS capabilities of the packet-switched service and notify the clients of a change in their negotiated QoS profile </p> </li> </ul> <p>The QoS is not network dependent. Some network dependent features is included if the telephony server provides full support QoS for different packet services. </p> <p> <b>Note</b>: <codeph>RPacketQoS</codeph> does not depend on the network. The networks like GPRS Release 97, Release 98, Release 99,Release 4, CDMA and CDMA2000 have different QoS specifications. <xref href="GUID-D5106D68-6797-3625-A351-A058009ACACF.dita"><apiname>RPacketQos</apiname></xref> must include the network specified features to provide QoS in these networks. </p> </section> <section><title>See also</title> <p> <xref href="GUID-5491D859-C348-5C39-AAE0-783A3A4B69B3.dita">Architecture</xref> </p> </section> </conbody></concept>