<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-E6B3E575-80E3-58E3-9950-E0A5F6798861" xml:lang="en"><title> Using
the Parser Plug-in Resource File</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This section explains how to specify the field values for a parser plug-in
resource file. </p>
<section><title>Procedure</title> <p>The XML framework is designed to manage
numerous parser implementations and has functionality to choose the implementation
most suited to the current document. </p> <p>The criteria used to make the
selection are held in the <xref href="GUID-54A442BD-FCF1-31D3-BEF7-598C1820F473.dita#GUID-54A442BD-FCF1-31D3-BEF7-598C1820F473/GUID-AEFF2DB4-FBC2-36EE-A4CE-7EBBD4AF004E"><apiname>Xml::CMatchData</apiname></xref> class. When this
information does not force the selection of exactly one parser, the framework
defaults firstly to choose a Symbian-supplied parser if present, else it will
choose the one with the lowest UID. When a parser implementation is created,
a resource file which supplies the related information must also be created. </p> <p>The <codeph>implementation_uid</codeph> field
must contain the <codeph>UID</codeph> of the plug-in. The <codeph>default_data</codeph> field
must contain the document type it can parse. The <codeph>opaque_data </codeph> field
specifies the supplier (Symbian or other). The following is a sample resource
file: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-2661506B-5B2F-50CF-A908-EAAE9B6EF726" xml:space="preserve">
RESOURCE REGISTRY_INFO validatorInfo
       {
       dll_uid = 0x10273863;
       interfaces = 
              {
              INTERFACE_INFO
                     {
                     interface_uid = 0x101FAA0B;
                     implementations = 
                            {
                            IMPLEMENTATION_INFO
                                   {
                                   implementation_uid = 0x10273864;
                                   version_no = 2;
                                   display_name = "Example parser";
                                   default_data = "text/xml||text/wbxml";
                                   opaque_data = "LicenseeX";
                                   }
                            };
                     }
              };
       }
</codeblock> <p>For more details on how to write a sample registration resource
file, refer to <xref href="GUID-9A9103E4-27B0-5CF3-855A-DCD44795A5C0.dita">Creating
a Standard Registration Resource File</xref> </p> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-F79E4F18-19E2-577E-8409-8B82BD48AC66.dita"><linktext>XML Framework
Overview</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>