<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="GUID-AA555CC1-5CFF-5609-9191-8970F32BA255" xml:lang="en"><title>CreateSIS</title><abstract><p>The <codeph>CreateSIS</codeph> tool is a wrapper around the <codeph>MakeSIS</codeph>, <codeph>SignSIS</codeph> and <codeph>MakeKeys</codeph> tools. </p> <p>This tool supports the creation and signing of SIS files,
and generation of keys and certificate pairs for signing. It also displays
signatures and certificate chain details of a SIS file. </p></abstract><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><refbody>
<refsyn><title>Syntax</title> <p><userinput>createsis <parmname>[OPTIONS]</parmname> <cmdname> &lt;ARGS&gt;</cmdname> </userinput> </p> <p>The following table lists the options supported by the <codeph>CreateSIS</codeph> tool. </p> <table id="GUID-2CD8E0F4-8F71-53CC-8563-9542F1D6F2C2">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Options</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
<entry>Usage</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>create</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Creates and signs the SIS file with a trusted key. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>createsis create [-cert &lt;cert&gt;] [-key &lt;key&gt;] [-pass
&lt;passphrase&gt;] &lt;pkgfile&gt;</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>sign</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Signs a pre-existing SIS file with a trusted key. </p> <p> <b>Note</b>:
The output SIS file created is different from the input SIS file, therefore
the original data is not destroyed. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>createsis sign –cert &lt;cert&gt; -key &lt;key&gt; [-pass &lt;passphrase&gt;]
&lt;sis_input&gt; &lt;sis_output&gt;</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>dump</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Displays all valid signatures and certificates associated with the
SIS file. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>createsis dump &lt;sisfile&gt;</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>strip</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Removes the most recent signatures from the SIS file. </p> </entry>
<entry><p><userinput>createsis strip &lt;sisfile&gt;</userinput> </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>The following table lists the arguments to be specified with the <codeph>CreateSIS</codeph> tool. </p> <table id="GUID-18BDE074-7F57-5DDE-ABCD-2D5370DF502A">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Arguments</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>-cert</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the certificate file used for signing. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>-key</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies private key file of the certificate. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>-pass</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies passphrase of the private key file. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>sis_input</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the SIS file to be signed, unsigned or investigated. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>sis_output</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the name of the output SIS file. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>pkgfile</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the PKG file, for which a SIS file is generated. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <varname>sisfile</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the name of the output SIS file to be generated. </p> <p> <b>Note</b>:
If not specified, is derived from the name of the PKG file, but with a <filepath>SIS</filepath> file
extension. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </refsyn>
<example id="GUID-939FFCE6-1155-5539-8B04-8DB2A0980514-GENID-1-7-1-4-1-1-5-1-6-1-6-1-5-1-3-2"><title> Examples</title> <p>The
following examples illustrate the usage of the <codeph>CreateSIS</codeph> tool: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-C64C6EAF-63DC-54C8-9A37-6DB6DF810A62"><p> <b>To create and sign
a SIS file using a trusted key</b>  </p> <p>You can specify the trusted End
Entity (EE) certificate and matching key using the <codeph>-cert</codeph> and <codeph>-key</codeph> parameters
while creating the SIS file. Optionally, you can specify a passphrase to decrypt
the private key using the <codeph>-pass</codeph> parameter. </p> <p>The trusted
EE Certificate is one that chains back to a trusted root in the target device
SWI certstore. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-92E43CF0-EFF5-529D-A0B1-669A59625D93" xml:space="preserve">createsis create -cert trustedchain.pem -key eecertkey.key mypackage.pkg</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-F9218BC9-97BA-5488-84AA-8375F635FD81"><p> <b>To sign a pre-existing
SIS file with a trusted key</b>  </p> <p>You can sign and re-sign a pre-existing
SIS file using the <codeph>sign</codeph> method. To sign a package, a key
and certificate chain must be provided on the command line. The output SIS
file is different from the input SIS file, so the original data is not destroyed. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-BCCA34C3-F780-5AF0-B713-A7D328D9EB32" xml:space="preserve">createsis sign -cert trustedchain.pem -key eecertkey.key mysis.sis mysis-signed.sis</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-C659BE6E-AA48-5AED-8AD4-ADAF667BDD1C"><p> <b>To sign a pre-existing
SIS file with a self-signed certificate</b>  </p> <p>When using <codeph>sign</codeph> method
if key-certificate pair is not provided then CreateSIS signs the specified
SIS file with an automatically generated self-signed certificate. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-B9EB4F8F-5C22-5BAF-96C6-ED9507A047B7" xml:space="preserve">createsis sign mysis.sis mysis-signed.sis</codeblock> </li>
</ul> </example>
</refbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-43B4B4E7-413E-5D18-811C-4B9E38CDEB69.dita"><linktext>PKG Format</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-4BDC9F63-83A1-53A5-91A0-B092AA821755.dita"><linktext>MakeSIS</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-B20EE8A3-D7B2-5872-AF43-001A88C1A46E.dita"><linktext>SignSIS</linktext>
</link>
<link href="GUID-03BBEA31-3266-5B1C-9017-4EE7EA4AF1A8.dita"><linktext>Creating
and Signing an Installation File</linktext></link>
</related-links></reference>