<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-367ADFD7-A0F5-59D3-BF83-913CB8126B9D"><title> Overview </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This document introduces you to the Viewfinder API. </p> <section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The Viewfinder enables you to pause and resume the direct viewfinder which is currently active and has been started using <codeph>Ccamera</codeph> methods. </p> <p><b>Viewfinder Library Details</b> </p> <p>The DLLs listed below provide the viewfinder functionality and the library to which your code must link is identified below. </p> <table id="GUID-9684EA64-3FEB-5DC2-803C-77E31D474698"><tgroup cols="4"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><colspec colname="col3"/><thead><row><entry>DLL</entry> <entry>Classes</entry> <entry>LIB</entry> <entry>Short Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <xref href="GUID-F4C719BF-F8C8-38FD-9E2B-2E483E9DAC71.dita"><apiname>ECamAdvSettings.dll</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita#GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4/GUID-8689F0A2-281F-3F87-B2BB-E36FAC87FB65"><apiname>CCamera::StartViewFinderDirectL()</apiname></xref> starts viewfinder. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita#GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4/GUID-144A45FA-EADE-3036-B013-821F65142C82"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraDirectViewFinder</apiname></xref> allows to use direct viewfinder. </p> </entry> <entry><p> <xref href="GUID-645E6782-2610-3E79-A6A8-66A65C325E5F.dita"><apiname>euser.lib</apiname></xref>  </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-EA31C23F-8081-3A82-ABAA-168F970B5381.dita"><apiname>ecampluginsupport.lib </apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>These files are used by ECAM clients to provide a certain type of control over direct viewfinder. </p> <p> </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <xref href="GUID-E70E98FE-08D2-3657-B653-14EC62B9B8FE.dita"><apiname>Ecam.dll</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-19C20CDB-474E-375E-BB0D-0AAAC5B0E9B2.dita"><apiname>ecamdirectviewfinder.dll</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <xref href="GUID-24FF5ADF-77FD-3F0C-9905-CE9F3AC0144A.dita"><apiname>CCameraViewFinder</apiname></xref>  </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-A2792673-6B43-3CC8-B93C-3259D72E3EF0.dita#GUID-A2792673-6B43-3CC8-B93C-3259D72E3EF0/GUID-1AB5D236-B39D-3582-BA73-1C95778747E8"><apiname>Camera::CCameraV2DirectViewFinder</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita#GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4/GUID-4618B02E-CD2E-3DEA-979F-4C55AE3D45EC"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraClientViewFinder</apiname></xref> (for starting multiple viewfinders). </p> </entry> <entry><p> <xref href="GUID-645E6782-2610-3E79-A6A8-66A65C325E5F.dita"><apiname>euser.lib</apiname></xref>  </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-EA31C23F-8081-3A82-ABAA-168F970B5381.dita"><apiname>ecampluginsupport.lib </apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>These files are used for implementing the Viewfinder functionalities. </p> <p> </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> <section><title>Architectural Relationship</title> <p>This is part of the camera component. </p> </section> <section><title>Description</title> <p>The Viewfinder acquires information about the current state of that direct viewfinder. The different possible states are active, paused and inactive. It allows you to pause and resume the direct viewfinder that is currently active and has been started using <codeph>CCamera</codeph> functions. </p> </section> <section id="GUID-FD016694-527F-5009-81FC-B5D8AD1A3A05"><title>Key Viewfinder Classes</title> <p>The key classes that make up the Viewfinder API are as follows: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-90AE695F-6B48-57F4-B705-D0FEC3919C27"><p> <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita#GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4/GUID-8689F0A2-281F-3F87-B2BB-E36FAC87FB65"><apiname> CCamera::StartViewFinderDirectL()</apiname></xref>  </p> <p>Class <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita"><apiname>CCamera</apiname></xref> is used to start the direct viewfinder using the <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita#GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4/GUID-8689F0A2-281F-3F87-B2BB-E36FAC87FB65"><apiname>CCamera::StartViewFinderDirectL()</apiname></xref> method. This starts the direct viewfinder and displays viewfinder data to a specified portion of the screen using direct screen access. <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita#GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4/GUID-144A45FA-EADE-3036-B013-821F65142C82"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraDirectViewFinder</apiname></xref> can then be used to pause and resume the viewfinder. </p> <p> <b>Note</b>: Licensees must provide a concrete implementation of <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita#GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4/GUID-8689F0A2-281F-3F87-B2BB-E36FAC87FB65"><apiname>CCamera::StartViewFinderDirectL()</apiname></xref>. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-A0F920D1-835E-51DA-954F-475081F2D642" xml:space="preserve"> // Pause direct viewfinder       
    directviewfinder-&gt;PauseViewFinderDirectL();
    // Resume direct viewfinder
    directviewfinder-&gt;ResumeViewFinderDirectL();</codeblock> </li> <li id="GUID-75B2B5A8-322C-5E12-BEE8-D2AAF3B070CE"><p> <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita#GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4/GUID-144A45FA-EADE-3036-B013-821F65142C82"><apiname> CCamera::CCameraDirectViewFinder</apiname></xref> class is used to provide support for Direct Viewfinder functions such as pause and resume. </p> <p> <b>Note</b>: Licensees must provide a concrete implementation of <xref href="GUID-01A5E35A-DA26-3CFD-9A79-4DDCE7774CAF.dita"><apiname>MCameraDirectViewFinder</apiname></xref>. </p> <ul><li id="GUID-F24D31A2-F032-56DF-82EE-4010CEEDBF55"><p> <xref href="GUID-144A45FA-EADE-3036-B013-821F65142C82.dita#GUID-144A45FA-EADE-3036-B013-821F65142C82/GUID-9EA70253-1A9E-3767-B3DD-107790B040A1"><apiname>
                     CCamera::CCameraDirectViewFinder::PauseViewFinderDirectL()</apiname></xref>  </p> <p>Pauses the direct viewfinder. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-61D7044F-0002-5666-94B4-FF581E87B78E"><p> <xref href="GUID-144A45FA-EADE-3036-B013-821F65142C82.dita#GUID-144A45FA-EADE-3036-B013-821F65142C82/GUID-8A599773-B478-35EB-8827-842C636943B3"><apiname>
                     CCamera::CCameraDirectViewFinder::ResumeViewFinderDirectL() </apiname></xref>  </p> <p>Resumes the direct viewfinder. </p> </li> </ul> </li> </ul> <p>Multiple viewfinders may run at the same time by the use of new extension classes: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-3544A4B0-C417-551E-A55B-97E8BF157F81"><p> <xref href="GUID-9DE13B2C-F605-348F-8056-519DDE4CAE1B.dita"><apiname>CcameraV2DirectViewFinder</apiname></xref>: This provides the necessary framework for multiple direct viewfinder support. The direct viewfinder classes are provided as a part of Version2 direct viewfinder implementation. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-EA6C40B7-3F07-5095-A376-648969602C16"><p> <xref href="GUID-B43EAE70-1B2C-3B41-B9A8-7FBB1A87C804.dita"><apiname>CcameraClientViewFinder</apiname></xref>: This provides the necessary framework for multiple client viewfinder support. The client viewfinder classes are provided as a part of client viewfinder implementation. </p> </li> </ul> <p> <b>Note</b>: Licensees must provide a concrete implementation of <xref href="GUID-0ED13F2A-A4C1-34B6-ADAA-6D04EA60802C.dita"><apiname>MCameraViewFinder</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-4C71BD28-FCB9-33CE-8FAA-A9525350E0E1.dita"><apiname>MCameraV2DirectViewFinder</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-06A2DDCE-3296-3773-A2D0-74460E216F39.dita"><apiname>MCameraClientViewFinder</apiname></xref>. </p> </section> <section><title>Using Viewfinder</title> <p>Clients can use the Viewfinder to: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-A593ED1B-A03B-549D-BE9D-DBDEB9FA44C1"><p>Run multiple viewfinders on different displays of camera. It can be executed on TV screen with different orientation based on its topology and on LCD display. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-0CE653F6-145B-5D86-A939-29FE38F86456"><p>Expand or reduce the view of the captured image. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-21CAE2E3-1E9B-54E1-81CB-09F674B37A36"><p>Add region of interest specification and control. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>See also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-36C3A2FD-F4F9-5B8C-91B7-40C29B3D2224.dita">Overview</xref> of Camera Framework </p> <p>The <xref href="GUID-2CC30ECA-053D-57FF-8E9D-8FA733A031C9.dita">Viewfinder</xref> Tutorial </p> </section> </conbody></concept>