<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task xml:lang="en" id="GUID-45E0760E-84CB-53DB-9D13-43829500C216"><title>Alternative Line Settings Tutorial</title><shortdesc>This tutorial describes how to get and set the alternative line settings using <apiname>RMobilePhone</apiname> functions. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody> <context><p>The Alternate Line Service (ALS) provides a subscriber with two voice lines, that is the primary and auxiliary lines. The phones that support ALS allow clients to get and set ALS settings irrespective of the current mode or network. ALS is a GSM-specific service available only on DCS 1800 networks. The ALS setting operates when the mobile station is registered to a DCS 1800 network. At other times, the primary voice line is used. </p> <p>When ALS is available, the user can have separate supplementary service profiles for the voice and auxiliary voice services. Incoming calls are received on either lines irrespective of the line selection. Outgoing calls are made on the selected line. </p> </context> <steps-unordered> <step id="GUID-7BBBA32D-0322-5EB1-A8FC-28567D4DD93B"><cmd>Get the current setting using <xref href="GUID-AA81AFA4-6FAC-3B0D-A082-BE0AEC58CCA8.dita"><apiname>RMobilePhone::GetALSLine()</apiname></xref>. </cmd> <info>ALS settings are described in the <xref href="GUID-AA81AFA4-6FAC-3B0D-A082-BE0AEC58CCA8.dita"><apiname>RMobilePhone::TMobilePhoneALSLine</apiname></xref> enum. </info> </step> <step id="GUID-19EF6977-FB4D-5EC9-8C75-664C101C1CDB"><cmd>Set a voice line as the active line for outgoing voice calls using <xref href="GUID-AA81AFA4-6FAC-3B0D-A082-BE0AEC58CCA8.dita"><apiname>RMobilePhone::SetALSLine()</apiname></xref>  </cmd> </step> <step id="GUID-0B28B20B-2E5A-50D0-8A46-0F372CB02CF8"><cmd>Use <xref href="GUID-AA81AFA4-6FAC-3B0D-A082-BE0AEC58CCA8.dita"><apiname>RMobilePhone::NotifyALSLineChange()</apiname></xref> to get the notification of any changes in the selected ALS line. </cmd> </step> </steps-unordered> <example><title>Alternative line settings example</title> <p>The following code gets the current ALS settings, and checks if the ALS is available. </p> <p>The code assumes <codeph>iMobilePhone</codeph> is an <xref href="GUID-AA81AFA4-6FAC-3B0D-A082-BE0AEC58CCA8.dita"><apiname>RMobilePhone</apiname></xref> object. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-6E39D503-4CC6-5FF2-8930-29F17121F2B7" xml:space="preserve">RMobilePhone::TMobilePhoneALSLine ALSLine;

User::LeaveIfError(iMobilePhone.GetALSLine(ALSLine));

if (ALSLine != RMobilePhone::EAlternateLineNotAvailable)
    {
        //do something

    }
</codeblock> </example> </taskbody></task>