<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-B36F47DC-0A62-5B8F-A761-2717B921A339" xml:lang="en"><title>Pre-configuring
the URI List</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The URI List framework provides support for pre-configuration of URIs in
the list. This enables clients to pre-define URIs before shipping the device
to end users. The URIs can be pre-configured to both BlackList and WhiteList.
The pre-configuration also allows clients to secure such URIs by disabling
removal or modification of the URIs. </p>
<p>The pre-configuration is done by creating an XML data file and installing
it in a server's secure path. The pre-configuration happens only once, that
is, when the first session with the server is created after installing the
XML file. When the server is started and if the URI List is empty, the server
checks for an XML file in its private path. If it exists, it copies the data
to the list. </p>
<p> <note>You cannot pre-configure the list after you have added URIs to it</note>. </p>
<p>Here are the steps to be performed for pre-configuration of the URI List: </p>
<ol id="GUID-4E19F75F-64DF-5A28-8F7E-9E4AAD5043FE">
<li id="GUID-5D93C60B-C815-58F2-B969-225D097037B3"><p>Create the XML data
file referring to the DTD shown in the <xref href="GUID-B36F47DC-0A62-5B8F-A761-2717B921A339.dita#GUID-B36F47DC-0A62-5B8F-A761-2717B921A339/GUID-14380740-AAA6-519E-BA97-B1A9581424B2">URI
List pre-configuration DTD</xref> section. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-4DA0CF7D-0D5E-5CAF-A3B1-A068D7E6BD7C"><p>Create an SIS package
containing this XML file. Sign it with ProtServ capability. </p> <p> <b>Note:</b> The
installation path of the XML file is <filepath>c:\\private\\20009D70\\</filepath>.
The name of the XML file should be <filepath>ineturilist.xml</filepath>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-985654A0-ADC3-50EE-97C8-4EF06E3DE47E"><p>Install the SIS package. </p> </li>
</ol>
</conbody></concept>