<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en" id="GUID-0D5692FB-305E-58B2-B105-B309BB9AE38D"><title>Location Acquisition API Reference</title><shortdesc>This document lists the main classes of the Location Acquisition API with links to reference documentation. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><refbody><section><title>Purpose</title> <p>This document provides a list of the main classes and types that are part of the Location Acquisition API. Each section gives a brief description of the purpose of the classes. The links can be followed to: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-93600B21-94FC-5EB4-B265-EEFCD2D366C2"><p>Full reference documentation describing each class </p> </li> <li id="GUID-C4CD6ADF-C8F2-531F-8DFD-EE576627A44A"><p>Guide material describing how to use the classes </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>API classes and types</title> <p>This section describes the most important classes of the Location Acquisition API. </p> <p><b>Client/server interaction classes</b> </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-0ADC4654-7F7B-3B53-A2F9-7035670F501B.dita"><apiname>RPositionServer</apiname></xref> is the class used to make a connection to the location server. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-1EAEB7EF-0AC7-37C7-B35F-C9B780FFC575.dita"><apiname>RPositioner</apiname></xref> is the class used to create a sub-session with the location server for the purpose of obtaining the current position. </p> <p><b>See also </b> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-65E9C040-AAB6-5C1E-9724-8828DADFC741.dita">Location Acquisition API Overview</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-F6B5F777-D12F-5913-AECE-047DF8C72F1F.dita">How to Get Location Information</xref>  </p> <p><b>Position data classes</b> </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-DDCBA817-9D88-3332-ABD3-1DDC6E397851.dita"><apiname>TCoordinate</apiname></xref> is the class that holds the basic coordinates of a location (latitude, longitude and altitude). </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-17A40F7C-E4CD-3F82-832A-AA8142973053.dita"><apiname>TLocality</apiname></xref> is the class that adds an error estimate for the horizontal and vertical accuracy of a <xref href="GUID-DDCBA817-9D88-3332-ABD3-1DDC6E397851.dita"><apiname>TCoordinate</apiname></xref>. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-AB9F288E-86C6-327A-9E53-2EA746416038.dita"><apiname>TPosition</apiname></xref> is the standard data structure for retrieving location data. It adds a timestamp to the inherited <xref href="GUID-17A40F7C-E4CD-3F82-832A-AA8142973053.dita"><apiname>TLocality</apiname></xref> information. </p> <p><b>See also </b> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-ABC01315-D65D-55EA-9D42-4DE6384D517D.dita">Position Data and Info Classes</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-AD7D9D39-6FF0-5811-9708-98538271BA0D.dita">Position Data</xref>  </p> <p><b>Data retrieval classes</b> </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-D5B2E933-209D-3871-8E27-CC5C8855C745.dita"><apiname>TPositionInfo</apiname></xref> is the standard class for getting a <xref href="GUID-AB9F288E-86C6-327A-9E53-2EA746416038.dita"><apiname>TPosition</apiname></xref> location fix from the location server. </p> <p><b>See also </b> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-ABC01315-D65D-55EA-9D42-4DE6384D517D.dita">Position Data and Info Classes</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-F6B5F777-D12F-5913-AECE-047DF8C72F1F.dita">How to Get Location Information</xref>  </p> <p><b>Extended data retrieval classes</b> </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-E66165C3-6391-39CF-BF88-99A61D69E6FA.dita"><apiname>TCourse</apiname></xref> is the class used to hold information about the current speed and direction of the device. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-B4CD3637-0FC6-38B8-AE89-C03EEC83C50D.dita"><apiname>TPositionCourseInfo</apiname></xref> is the class for getting <xref href="GUID-E66165C3-6391-39CF-BF88-99A61D69E6FA.dita"><apiname>TCourse</apiname></xref> data from the location server. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-5440B1A0-98B0-3689-AC0B-27D5A35BFDA1.dita"><apiname>TSatelliteData</apiname></xref> is the class that holds satellite data. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-54AE0674-C49D-3329-8B77-3A58EFFC03D7.dita"><apiname>TPositionSatelliteInfo</apiname></xref> is the class for getting <xref href="GUID-5440B1A0-98B0-3689-AC0B-27D5A35BFDA1.dita"><apiname>TSatelliteData</apiname></xref> from the location server. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-C0D87E5C-315E-37E6-829E-73F93E83748E.dita"><apiname>HPositionGenericInfo</apiname></xref> is the class for passing extended position data between a client and the Location Server. </p> <p><b>See also </b> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-ABC01315-D65D-55EA-9D42-4DE6384D517D.dita">Position Data and Info Classes</xref>  </p> <p><b>Module information</b> </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-B098F3DB-E2FE-3C5A-8508-4B04D954AB26.dita"><apiname>TPositionModuleInfo</apiname></xref> is the class that holds information on position modules. This information includes the capabilities of the module, such as whether it can supply altitude or satellite data and the quality of position described by a <xref href="GUID-1AA235FA-CEC1-3853-8F96-C538C02B596D.dita"><apiname>TPositionQuality</apiname></xref> object. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-1AA235FA-CEC1-3853-8F96-C538C02B596D.dita"><apiname>TPositionQuality</apiname></xref> is the class that describes the quality of position that a positioning module can deliver. </p> <p><b>See also </b> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-BADAAC2D-8614-5036-95BC-3889457F7ED0.dita">Positioning Modules</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-A4B47A7A-17EB-570C-AD88-6756B34AF634.dita">How to Use Module Information</xref>  </p> <p><b>Module updates, status and events</b> </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-F8376F62-46F2-3E7C-9536-920DB6FC6039.dita"><apiname>TPositionModuleStatus</apiname></xref> is the class that describes a positioning module's status, such as whether it is ready or disabled. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-6E827E6E-69EF-3EA3-95FF-9A0B38B689EA.dita"><apiname>TPositionModuleStatusEvent</apiname></xref> is the class used to indicate that a module status change has occurred. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-E60595B9-B6E2-38E1-BE1E-A82113C7EC94.dita"><apiname>TPositionUpdateOptions</apiname></xref> is the class used by a client to set position update options such as a request timeout and whether partial updates are accepted. </p> <p><b>See also </b> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-AC7069ED-8CA5-55FC-9DF6-595C0505C672.dita">Positioning Module Status</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-F5944819-2942-5ADA-A0AD-510D20BFBDEB.dita">How to Get Module Status Changes</xref>  </p> <p><b>Privacy requester classes</b> </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-AA0D6BF8-DFD6-3A6D-8366-CFCB301D17CA.dita"><apiname>CRequestor</apiname></xref> defines a privacy requester (such as a service or contact) that is requesting location information. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-BAB32310-D928-3314-B253-9685721EABE0.dita"><apiname>RRequestorStack</apiname></xref> defines a stack of <codeph>CRequestors</codeph> and is used when requester acts on behalf of another to request location information. </p> <p><b>See also </b> </p> <p><xref href="GUID-ACD9E338-DF75-5811-B696-C3900B498218.dita">Privacy Requester Classes</xref>  </p> </section> <section><title>Header files and libraries</title> <p>To use the Location Acquisition API, client applications do the following: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-BBAE358D-BD42-5021-8F37-095FACF8F797"><p>Include the appropriate header files defined in table 1 below. </p> <table id="GUID-B7F5B72B-FF87-5619-9562-D2D239BE706B"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><thead><row><entry>Header file</entry> <entry>Contents</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <filepath> lbs.h</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Main client/server classes </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath> lbsclasstypes.h</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Enumerated types used in the API </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath>lbscommon.h</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>API constants, positioning module status and quality classes </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath> lbscriteria.h</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Positioning module criteria classes </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath> lbserrors.h</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>API error and panic codes </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath> lbsfieldids.h</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Field ids used by extended data class <codeph>HPositionGenericInfo</codeph>  </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath> lbsfields.h</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <codeph>HPositionGenericInfo</codeph> definition. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath> lbsipc.h</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Values used for client/server IPC </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath> lbsipc.hrh</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Values used for client/server IPC </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath> lbsposition.h</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Position data classes <codeph>TPosition</codeph>, <codeph>TCourse</codeph> etc. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath> lbspositioninfo.h</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Position info classes <codeph>TPositionInfo</codeph> etc. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath> lbsrequestor.h</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Privacy requester classes. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <filepath> lbssatellite.h</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Classes for satellite data and info. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> <p>Table 1. Location Acquisition API header files. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-A4C5A97C-DE7A-55F3-A251-C5DC53CBE2AF"><p>link against the library <filepath>lbs.dll</filepath> (import library is <filepath>lbs.lib</filepath>). </p> </li> </ul> <p> </p> </section> </refbody></reference>