<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-B16A0370-F18F-4035-B3D6-ED550D8D68F9" xml:lang="en"><title>Presentation
of text</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-D15030E7-08E0-4FBD-AA00-90C63DE0A09B"><title>Alignment</title><p>The
default text alignment in left-to-right languages is on the left. There are
only a few exceptions to this in specific cases, for example, soft indicators
in the home screen, which are right-aligned.</p><p>In right-to-left UI languages,
the default text alignment is on the right.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-A95C4D65-947E-4F69-B165-7CE080CF53CD"><title>Truncation</title><p>When
a text does not fit into the view where it is displayed, it should be truncated.
By default, texts are truncated from the end, and ellipsis (...) is displayed
at the end of the truncated text as an indication. There are two exceptions
to this main rule:</p><ul>
<li><p>Phone numbers are truncated from the beginning, because the first digits
of a phone number are usually considered less important than the numbers at
the end.</p></li>
<li><p>This general rule may be overridden in certain detailed components,
where the latter part of the text is more differentiating than the beginning.
Such might be, for example, queries to select an email address.</p></li>
</ul></section>
<section id="GUID-B2BC7CED-1704-4D90-A5A5-7FB434BE3704"><title>Marquee scrolling</title><p>When
a text does not fit to a list view, the list text can be horizontally scrolling.
Marquee scrolling should be used for texts that are not generated by the phone
and for which truncation is not desired for some reason. For example, a Web
address may not fit to one row of text in a list and it may be important to
see the whole address.</p><p>Scrolling is done only when the item is highlighted.
The text is scrolled in only one direction, and it does not loop.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-6541BB9F-7232-47F3-ACFA-AEC260CA3EA3"><title>Content zooming</title><p>Content
zooming is supported in the various lists, forms and settings in the Symbian
UI. In this way, users can either use smaller font sizes to fit more information
on the screen, or they can increase the text size if necessary. The user can
choose between three different zoom levels using General Settings.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>