<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-4C35C86A-D57F-503B-8E55-5D235E0D6DA0" xml:lang="en"><title>What
is Versioning?</title><shortdesc>This topic describes the purpose and uses of versioning. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>



<p>Tools and applications use a set of classes to represent the data in the
Comms Database. These classes are the container classes, which derive from <xref href="GUID-1CDD0B97-8B00-3373-9908-512C9BC1CF51.dita"><apiname>CMDBElement</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-1CDD0B97-8B00-3373-9908-512C9BC1CF51.dita"><apiname>MMetaDatabase</apiname></xref>. </p>
<p>The format of the data does not match the format of the data in the database.
The implementation of the CommsDat API maps between the external format and
the internal format. </p>
<p>Future releases of Symbian platform can change the internal format. The
map between the external format and the internal format maintains compatibility
for tools and applications if the internal format changes. </p>
<p>A new internal format is a new version of the interface. If a new version
is created, the older version is deprecated, but Symbian platform maintains
the compatibility for a managed period. </p>
<p>You specify the version you need when you create a session with the Comms
Database. </p>
<p>A version is defined by an instance of the <xref href="GUID-1CDD0B97-8B00-3373-9908-512C9BC1CF51.dita"><apiname>TVersion</apiname></xref> class. </p>
<p>In practice, changes to versions are extremely rare. The curent version
is the same version used when the Comms Database was added to Symbian platform. </p>
</conbody></concept>