<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task xml:lang="en" id="GUID-BFA9C72B-F50E-5DE1-8DFB-09AF188B2E65"><title>Root Server Tutorial</title><shortdesc>The root session provides access to system telephony information, in particular the available phones and Telephony System Plug-ins (TSYs). The root session interface is provided by the <apiname>RTelServer</apiname>. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody> <prereq><p>The developers must have knowledge of Symbian OS Client/Server framework. </p> </prereq> <context><p>The client application that use the telephony functionalities must create a connection to the telephony server using the <xref href="GUID-4A173538-1CE1-30CC-AFAA-B4F5496274D1.dita"><apiname>RTelServer</apiname></xref> class. </p> </context> <steps-unordered> <step id="GUID-2CF97AEF-98A2-580F-B46A-43A4E5C6275C"><cmd>Create a connection to the telephony server using <xref href="GUID-4A173538-1CE1-30CC-AFAA-B4F5496274D1.dita"><apiname>RTelServer::Connect()</apiname></xref>. </cmd> </step> <step id="GUID-0882226F-4810-5E60-A9FC-93405AFEB962"><cmd>To get the information of a specific phone session, call the <xref href="GUID-4A173538-1CE1-30CC-AFAA-B4F5496274D1.dita"><apiname>GetPhoneInfo()</apiname></xref> function. </cmd> </step> <step id="GUID-8519021F-035B-58CF-B44A-2B7D6EDF97C9"><cmd>To get the TSY name related to a phone, call the <xref href="GUID-4A173538-1CE1-30CC-AFAA-B4F5496274D1.dita"><apiname>GetTsyName()</apiname></xref> function. </cmd> </step> <step id="GUID-257357DB-B0EB-5B25-BB58-5761B1C4965F"><cmd>To load a TSY module, call the <xref href="GUID-4A173538-1CE1-30CC-AFAA-B4F5496274D1.dita"><apiname>LoadPhoneModule()</apiname></xref> function. </cmd> <info> Note:The caller must know the name of the TSY which can be passed as an argument, hard coded or obtained from the communication database. </info> </step> <step id="GUID-EC619C27-B306-599B-A401-668765E72742"><cmd>To unload a TSY module, call the <xref href="GUID-4A173538-1CE1-30CC-AFAA-B4F5496274D1.dita"><apiname>UnloadPhoneModule()</apiname></xref> function. </cmd> </step> <step id="GUID-886C280C-5070-5311-A02C-2A18E8F6A9C4"><cmd>To find out if a functionality is supported by the TSY, call the <xref href="GUID-4A173538-1CE1-30CC-AFAA-B4F5496274D1.dita"><apiname>IsSupportedByModule()</apiname></xref> function. </cmd> <info>The functionality to be tested is passed as the parameter. </info> </step> <step id="GUID-54407495-2451-5114-8785-5A547995B62F"><cmd>To find the version number of a TSY, call the <xref href="GUID-4A173538-1CE1-30CC-AFAA-B4F5496274D1.dita"><apiname>GetTsyVersionNumber()</apiname></xref> function. </cmd> <info>Specify the TSY in the function parameter. </info> </step> <step id="GUID-EDEA5932-A20A-53C6-9BFD-016BA94660B4"><cmd>To specify the error granualarity, call the <xref href="GUID-4A173538-1CE1-30CC-AFAA-B4F5496274D1.dita"><apiname>SetExtendedErrorGranualirity()</apiname></xref> function. </cmd> <info>The default level is set to receive server and system wide error codes. The extended error codes provide more device specific information. If the TSY cannot translate the extended error codes then the basic error code is returned. </info> </step> <step id="GUID-E7B4B05A-28C4-5DB2-B00D-26EA70ED320C"><cmd>To set a high priority to a client, call the <xref href="GUID-4A173538-1CE1-30CC-AFAA-B4F5496274D1.dita"><apiname>SetPriorityClient()</apiname></xref> function. </cmd> </step> </steps-unordered> <postreq><p>To use the functions specific to phone, line or call use the sub-session classes <xref href="GUID-4A173538-1CE1-30CC-AFAA-B4F5496274D1.dita"><apiname>RPhone</apiname></xref>, <xref href="GUID-4A173538-1CE1-30CC-AFAA-B4F5496274D1.dita"><apiname>RLine</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-4A173538-1CE1-30CC-AFAA-B4F5496274D1.dita"><apiname>RCall</apiname></xref> sub-session classes. </p> </postreq> </taskbody><related-links><link href="GUID-24D47C0C-733B-5FF6-821E-D280EF526026.dita"><linktext>Phone Sub-session
                Tutorial</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-2BB64CFC-F564-5DFA-AFEC-DC1760A87662.dita"><linktext>Line Sub-session Tutorial</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-B467D117-6670-5614-9886-539CF654F9D8.dita"><linktext>Call Sub-session Tutorial</linktext> </link> </related-links></task>