<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="GUID-9D5F3B5E-37FB-5156-808B-F92519412A7F" xml:lang="en"><title>Language
Dependent Files</title><abstract><p>The text and the images that are required to be localized, must
be defined in language-specific resource and icon files. You must specify
the filenames and path of the resource files in the <filepath>PKG</filepath> file,
for the resource files to be installed on the Symbian device. Based on the
parameters specified in the <filepath>PKG</filepath> file, the resource files
that are specific to the supported languages on the Symbian device are installed
or the resource files for the language selected by the Symbian device user
are installed. </p> <p>This section explains the ways of specifying resource
files, based on the requirement for installing resource files for languages
supported on the Symbian device, or language selected by the Symbian device
user, during installation. </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-C3E6265B-3676-5B59-8A61-F244DA5C9632"><p> <xref href="GUID-9D5F3B5E-37FB-5156-808B-F92519412A7F.dita#GUID-9D5F3B5E-37FB-5156-808B-F92519412A7F/GUID-4756EAA2-C287-5A3C-9940-184A435EC556">Specific to the languages supported by the Symbian device</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-EF3BCF4E-6567-51AE-BB28-FAB70E0F5719"><p> <xref href="GUID-9D5F3B5E-37FB-5156-808B-F92519412A7F.dita#GUID-9D5F3B5E-37FB-5156-808B-F92519412A7F/GUID-B59B2FA0-AA8F-5FC0-AEF9-37C10AE74E62">Specific to the language selected by the Symbian device user</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-71E8A9E4-9EAA-5726-9B20-C591FFA227FF"><p> <xref href="GUID-9D5F3B5E-37FB-5156-808B-F92519412A7F.dita#GUID-9D5F3B5E-37FB-5156-808B-F92519412A7F/GUID-B188FC32-F607-5927-85DB-6E6813DC1047">Specific to the languages supported by the Symbian device or language selected
by Symbian device user</xref>  </p> </li>
</ul></abstract><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><refbody>
<section id="GUID-4756EAA2-C287-5A3C-9940-184A435EC556"><title>Specific to
the languages supported by the Symbian device </title> <p>Specify each of
the language-specific resource files within an IF conditional block and set
the <codeph>SUPPORTED_LANGUAGE</codeph> parameter to a <xref href="GUID-31C133DE-F245-5992-9A41-20A99291E72A.dita#GUID-31C133DE-F245-5992-9A41-20A99291E72A/GUID-1F01A43F-64F7-5C90-92D1-974356A6C386">TLanguage numerical value</xref>, as shown in the following code snippet: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-ED64C003-6656-53EF-AAD7-98F71C305874" xml:space="preserve">
if supported_language=01 
    "HelloWorld.r01"          -"!: \ resource\apps\HelloWorld.r01"
endif

if supported_language=02 
    "HelloWorld.r02"          -"!: \ resource\apps\HelloWorld.r02"
endif</codeblock> <p>During installation, the languages supported by the Symbian
device are matched with the languages supported in the SIS file. The result
is based on the following two conditions: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-9D31BDA0-E407-5E7F-8906-E10473C03E34"><p>If an exact match is
found, the files corresponding to that language are copied to the Symbian
device. </p> <p>For example, if the SIS file specifies UK English(01), French(02)
and Zulu(98), and the Symbian device supports only UK English(01) and French(02),
during installation, only the files related to UK English(01) and French(02)
are copied to the Symbian device. The files for Zulu(98) are not copied to
the Symbian device. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-248D9FB8-EEE7-5362-B76D-5397CE21DE99"><p>If an exact match is
not found for any of the device supported languages, the files for all equivalent
languages (supported by the SIS files) corresponding to each of the device
supported languages are copied to the Symbian device. </p> <p>For example,
if the SIS file supports UK English(01), French(02) and International English(47),
and the Symbian device supports only American English(10) then during installation,
as an exact match for American English is not found, the files for UK English
and International English (both equivalent match) are copied to the Symbian
device. See <xref href="GUID-10A50B7C-63DB-599B-86C1-17989595CBD2.dita">Equivalent
Languages Reference</xref> for a list of all language equivalents supported
by Symbian Foundation. </p> </li>
</ul> <p> <b>Important</b>: </p> <p>Language-specific resource files must
have filenames with language-specific extensions. For example, the resource
files for UK English(01) must have the filename as <filepath>Filename.r01</filepath>. </p> <p>If
you use the <filepath>.rsc</filepath> file extension, as shown in the following
code snippet, and if both the languages are supported on the Symbian device,
the resource files of UK English(01) are overwritten by resource files of
French (02) language during installation. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-6DB66C22-4CDC-51B1-B3E3-789567FCC3E0" xml:space="preserve">
if supported_language=01 //UK English
    "HelloWorld.r01"          -"!: \ resource\apps\HelloWorld.rsc" //do not use this extension format
endif

if supported_language=02 //French
    "HelloWorld.r02"          -"!: \ resource\apps\HelloWorld.rsc"
endif</codeblock> </section>
<section id="GUID-B59B2FA0-AA8F-5FC0-AEF9-37C10AE74E62"><title>Specific to
the language selected by the Symbian device user </title> <p>You can use one
of the following formats: </p><ul>
<li><p>Format1</p></li>
<li><p>Format2</p></li>
</ul> <p><b>Format1</b> </p> <p>Specify each of the language-specific resource
files within an IF conditional block and set the <codeph>LANGUAGE</codeph> parameter
to a <xref href="GUID-31C133DE-F245-5992-9A41-20A99291E72A.dita#GUID-31C133DE-F245-5992-9A41-20A99291E72A/GUID-1F01A43F-64F7-5C90-92D1-974356A6C386">TLanguage
numerical value</xref>, as shown in the following code snippet: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-FE86BD13-40C2-5F56-8630-542C56B6CFBE" xml:space="preserve">
if language=01
    "HelloWorld.r01"          -"!: \ resource\apps\HelloWorld.r01"
endif

if language=02
    "HelloWorld.r02"          -"!: \ resource\apps\HelloWorld.r02"
endif</codeblock> <p>During installation, Symbian device user is prompted
to select a language. Based on the selection, the resource files for the selected
language are installed. </p> <p>For example, if the SIS file specifies UK
English(01) and French(02), Symbian device user is prompted to select UK English
or French language for installation. Based on the selection, the resource
files for the selected language are copied to the Symbian device. </p> <p>If
the Symbian device supports only one language, the resource files for only
that language are installed. In this scenario the Symbian device user is not
prompted to select a language for installation. </p> <p><b>Format2</b> </p> <p>The
syntax is as follows: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-E0599A9A-2174-5B99-8D2A-3F05BF4B3343" xml:space="preserve">{"source-filename1", "source-filename2", ...} - "destination-filename"[, install-options]</codeblock> <p>For example: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-9F400876-379E-55F8-B751-9EC04362BC0F" xml:space="preserve">{
"examples\HelloWorld\HelloWorld.ruk"
"examples\HelloWorld\HelloWorld.rfr"
"examples\HelloWorld\HelloWorld.rzu"
}-"!:\resource\apps\HelloWorld.rsc"</codeblock> <p>For a description of each
argument, see <xref href="GUID-B3BE018B-0EC5-5866-9BD7-50CBF5670324.dita">Language-Neutral
Files</xref>. </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-E9BD1B9C-86B4-5C91-A0DA-21CF3A0DF87A"><p>The opening brace denotes
the start of the block of language-dependent files. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-06331C76-E7AD-560C-B260-AA8C97B66725"><p>The order of the files
must be the same as the order in which the languages are specified in the
languages line. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-46884386-2751-52FE-8954-276AAC437E3E"><p>The number of files
specified must be the same as the number of languages supported. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-663D8D87-7E19-5733-8CE4-CD5A511A3344"><p>Install options can
be specified after the destination name, for example, <codeph>FT</codeph> to
display a language specific dialog. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9753E3DF-12B3-5A29-930A-862474F138E0"><p>Language dependent file
blocks, and other conditional blocks are evaluated at the end of the installation.
For example, the executables launched using <codeph>FILERUN</codeph> or <codeph>FILEMIME</codeph> statements
must not depend on conditionally installed or language-dependent files in
the same package file. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>This format is commonly used to specify lists of resource files.
Resource files are installed to <filepath>\resource\apps</filepath>. </p> <p>If
a resource file is to be accessed only by the application, it can be installed
to the application's private directory, <filepath>\private\&lt;process   
          SID&gt;\</filepath>. The SID (secure ID) is normally the same as the <codeph>UID3</codeph>,
which is specified in the <filepath>MMP</filepath> file. </p> <p>An application
registration (resource) file is an exception. The applications built into
the ROM must provide their registration file in the <filepath>z:\private\10003a3f\apps</filepath> and
applications installed through Software Installer must locate their registration
file in <filepath>\private\10003a3f\import\apps</filepath>. </p> <note> The
registration file in ROM must be located in <filepath>z:\private\10003a3f\import\apps\</filepath> and
can be eclipsed.</note><p>Also, ECom registration resource files for ECom
plug-ins must be installed in <filepath>\resource\plugins\</filepath>. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-B188FC32-F607-5927-85DB-6E6813DC1047"><title>Specific to
the languages supported by the Symbian device or language selected by Symbian
device user</title> <p>Specify each of the language-specific resource files
within an IF conditional block and set the <codeph>SUPPORTED_LANGUAGE</codeph> and <codeph>LANGUAGE</codeph> parameters
to a <xref href="GUID-31C133DE-F245-5992-9A41-20A99291E72A.dita#GUID-31C133DE-F245-5992-9A41-20A99291E72A/GUID-1F01A43F-64F7-5C90-92D1-974356A6C386">TLanguage
numerical value</xref> separated by an <codeph>OR</codeph> condition, as shown
in the following code snippet: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-50F06B9B-3552-5221-80C1-F9B06BAC328A" xml:space="preserve">
if supported_language=02 or language=02
    "HelloWorld.r01"          -"!: \ resource\apps\HelloWorld.r01"
endif

if supported_language=98 or language=98
    "HelloWorld.r98"          -"!: \ resource\apps\HelloWorld.r98"
endif</codeblock> <p> <b>Important:</b> Language-specific resource files must
have filenames with language-specific extensions. For example, the resource
files for UK English(01) must have the filename as <filepath>Filename.r01</filepath>. </p> <p>If
the SIS file does not include the Symbian device supported languages or its
equivalent, the Symbian device user is prompted to select a language. Based
on the selection, the files for the selected language are installed. </p> <p>For
example, if the SIS file supports French(02) and Zulu(98), and the Symbian
device supports UK English(01) and German(03), the Symbian device user is
prompted to select French or Zulu language for installation. Based on the
selection, the files for the selected language are installed. </p> <note>During
installation, if an exact or an equivalent language match is not found, the
Symbian device user is prompted to select a language. If you have not specified
the <codeph>LANGUAGE</codeph> parameter in <filepath>PKG</filepath> file,
as there is no resource file found for the selected language, no resource
files are installed. To avoid this, ensure that you always specify the <codeph>LANGUAGE</codeph> parameter
in the <filepath>PKG</filepath> file. </note> </section>
</refbody></reference>