<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-CC96F41D-5AC9-5D11-BD4D-073548EA5CC8" xml:lang="en"><title>Multimedia
Hardware Adaptation Interfaces Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This document introduces you to the Multimedia Hardware Adaptation Interfaces
collection. </p>
<section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The Multimedia Hardware Adaptation Interfaces
(HAI) collection defines hardware-independent interfaces for controlling the
hardware component, such as:<ul>
<li><p>Mobile TV reception</p></li>
<li><p>Video hardware</p></li>
</ul> </p> </section>
<section><title>Architectural Relationship</title> <p>Symbian
provides APIs for use by hardware integrators so they can implement their
own mobile TV solutions. </p><p>The APIs are introduced with their components.
The Multimedia components DevVideo and DevSound provide APIs for handling
the media data once the raw data stream has been extracted by the Multimedia
HAI components. </p> </section>
<section><title>Description</title> <p>The Multimedia HAI provides support
for controlling the hardware component, and handling the data streams. </p><p>The APIs provided make it possible to write
an implementation of a supported mobile TV standard that can control and manage
the incoming signals including splitting the signal into an audio, video and
information stream. </p> </section>
<section><title>Supported Mobile TV standards</title><p>Support
is currently provided for the DVB-H (Digital Video Broadcast-Handset) transmission
standard. DVB-H is a superset of the DVB-T (Digital Video Broadcast-Terrestrial)
standard. </p></section>
<section><title>Other Mobile TV standards</title><p>Other
standard mobile TV formats include: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-861CB11D-7C55-5D57-A825-D16CBF3AD330"><p>Digital Multimedia Broadcasting
(DMB) </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-E4C54F43-785D-57BD-A0C3-A5BB8F407E21"><p>TDtv (subset of TD-CDMA) </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-01A4C66A-7B2A-5E46-8688-6A07950AE3BF"><p>1seg (part of ISDB-T) </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-022B7FB3-B83E-5B17-9590-ADA3E4919B95"><p>DAB </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-13658006-55E6-55F7-9F24-F84D4BBCD8FF"><p>MediaFLO </p> </li>
</ul> <p> <b> Note:</b> The Symbian platform does not provide any support
for these other standards at present. </p></section>
<section><title>Components</title> <p>The Multimedia HAI collection includes
the following: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-5E347E40-5F5B-57A4-AD17-5DAA0240778B"><p>Mobile
TV DVB-H Receiver HAI </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-E0BCB995-BC4D-5594-A3A5-32BA557459E7"><p>Video HAI </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>Mobile TV DVB-H Receiver
HAI</title><p>The <xref href="GUID-4D93A8E2-DB78-5681-BD0E-54B02D92140F.dita">Mobile
TV DVB-H Receiver HAI</xref> allows an implementation to be written for the
only (currently) supported mobile TV standard, DVB-H. </p></section>
<section><title>Video HAI</title><p>The <xref href="GUID-D9D2A600-89C6-5D82-8BC0-2C60D8F6517A.dita">Video
HAI</xref> defines an interface for plug-ins that provide video functionality. </p></section>
<section><title>Using Multimedia HAI</title> <p>Hardware integrators can write
device drivers or servers to manage the component like:</p><ul>
<li><p>Reception of mobile TV signals (currently
only DVB-H)</p></li>
<li><p>Video</p></li>
</ul><p>These components expose APIs that are independent of
the underlying implementation and hardware specifics. </p> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-4D93A8E2-DB78-5681-BD0E-54B02D92140F.dita">
<linktext>Mobile TV DVB-H Receiver HAI Component Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-D9D2A600-89C6-5D82-8BC0-2C60D8F6517A.dita"><linktext>Video HAI
Component Overview</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>