<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-A25FE08D-F91E-5C77-969D-569941974E6E" xml:lang="en"><title>LBS
Integration and Configuration Guide Overview</title><shortdesc>This document gives an overview of how device creators integrate
the LBS subsystem into their products. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-DBF1C87D-7360-54B7-8658-B6659BF77F06-GENID-1-12-1-19-1-1-6-1-4-1-3-1"><title>Introduction</title> <p>A
device creator must complete a set of tasks to create a working LBS subsystem
that can be used in a product. The precise configuration of the LBS subsystem
depends on which features of LBS are required. </p> <p>The documents in this
section provide guidance to help device creators understand which LBS components
must be included in their LBS subsystem based on their requirements. </p> </section>
<section><title>Required background</title> <p>Read <xref href="GUID-7233BC33-6060-5D6B-A5D2-01135F059337.dita">LBS
Architecture Overview</xref> for background information on the components
of LBS on the Symbian platform. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-939FFCE6-1155-5539-8B04-8DB2A0980514-GENID-1-12-1-19-1-1-6-1-4-1-3-3"><title>LBS configurations</title> <p>There
are two main LBS subsystem configurations that a device creator can build.
Follow the links for more information on each of these. </p> <ol id="GUID-22BEA62D-8B74-5574-A40F-4CC256A46D9D">
<li id="GUID-C06B3933-B761-548A-97F2-3484A31274C2"><p><xref href="GUID-A898867E-0C50-583E-979F-132504C24C9A.dita">Full
LBS on the Symbian Platform</xref>  </p> <p>A device creator can configure
the LBS subsystem to handle location requests from installed applications
and from the network. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C3FEFBF8-DB4F-579D-9CC4-6306D1F5B033"><p><xref href="GUID-3618ECE9-C22B-5AE2-837E-FEBC55D42330.dita">LBS
in Standalone Privacy Mode</xref>  </p> <p>A device creator can configure
the LBS subsystem to handle location requests from installed applications
and <i>privacy requests</i> from the network. </p> <p>Device creators must
create and use components in the device domestic OS to handle <i>location
requests</i> from the network. Creating these components is outside of the
scope of this Symbian platform documentation, but the LBS APIs that they must
use are described. </p> </li>
</ol> </section>
<section><title>LBS ROM macros</title> <p>The Symbian platform contains several
ROM macros that are used to build the LBS configurations described above. </p> <p>See <xref href="GUID-5B39D732-7252-57EB-BA74-FC8718ED45E4.dita">LBS ROM Macros</xref> for
more information. </p> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-7233BC33-6060-5D6B-A5D2-01135F059337.dita"><linktext>LBS Architecture
Overview</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>