<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-AB69D251-7635-4325-BBCE-92F7AFC86DC2" xml:lang="en"><title>New C++ APIs in Symbian^3</title><shortdesc>The following new C++ APIs are introduced in Symbian^3.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><table id="GUID-2FD9A877-1A75-4ADD-8B9A-B2FA4A9EB7C4-GENID-1-5-1-1-6-1-3-1">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.23*"/><colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="1.93*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>API</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Adapter Customization API</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Exports the Contact Adapter API to inherit Contact Adapter
and create extended contact adapters.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>After Market Application (AMA) Starter APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Manages the launch of AMCs (After Market Components), such
as applications and services, at device boot time. For more information,
see <xref href="GUID-4FE55BA2-FEA3-5A4F-A329-7C76623C7E60.dita">After Market
Application Starter</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Beagle Variant Header APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides variant layer headers for the Beagle platform.
For more information on Beagle plaform, see <xref format="html" href="http://www.beagleboard.org/" scope="external">http://beagleboard.org/</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><p><b>CryptoSPI (Weak and Strong) APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides a framework for implementing cryptographic algorithms,
hash algorithms and random number generation. For more information,
see <xref href="GUID-BCDCB147-865F-58B0-816F-5FBF0E7CCDD7.dita">CryptoSPI
Overview</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Communication Buffer APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides communication specific specialization of a shared
buffer. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-4FB33BFE-DCF7-3B77-A447-F9C049DF86CB.dita"><apiname>RCommsBuf</apiname></xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Comms User Prompt Manager APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides APIs to enable unsigned applications to access
the network, if user authorisation is provided. For more information,
see <xref href="GUID-5BD9F31A-AA40-5F3B-8613-949C60792A88.dita">Comms User
Prompt Manager</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Common Graphics Header APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides a storage area for header files that are required
by a number of graphics components and their clients. For more information,
see <xref href="GUID-DFE0828A-E8FE-5776-92ED-0364B4386A72.dita">Common
Graphics Headers Component</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Content Control Server APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides content control server IPC functions. For more
information, see <xref href="GUID-31298286-49C8-3E44-B8FD-C0091597EA18.dita"><apiname>CCcSrvMsg</apiname></xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Content Control Client APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides a client side session for content control server.
For more information, see <xref href="GUID-D6BBB858-3E28-3AE6-B762-16CF98BA02D0.dita"><apiname>RCcClientSession </apiname></xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Discreet Pop-up</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Displays notifications without blocking the ongoing task
flows in the user interface (UI). For more information, see <xref href="GUID-94005A46-B4C6-4A30-A8E8-1B9C2D583D50.dita">Classic
UI Guide</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>DS Data Modification API</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Exports the Data Modification API to modify contact's data
directly from operator specific contact adapters.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>E-mail Widget API</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>ECom plugin API that Third-party e-mail solutions implement
to publish e-mail data to Home Screen widget. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>exFAT File System APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides the "exFAT" file system. For more information,
see <xref href="GUID-5538A935-C330-3765-AC62-DB92D36D59EB.dita#GUID-5538A935-C330-3765-AC62-DB92D36D59EB/GUID-C816B4EE-F259-316A-8818-3CBD7A9B34B8"><apiname>FileSystem_EXFAT::TVolFormatParam_exFAT</apiname></xref>. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Extended Content Publisher API</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides interfaces for Home Screen content publisher plug-ins.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>EUser High Level (EUserHL) Library APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides APIs to improve string handling, object creation
and resource management. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-D60B55FA-D8C1-559A-9D99-48845BE32A6C.dita">EUser High Level
Library</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Feature Manager APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides APIs to manage, enable and disable features shipped
with a Symbian device. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-0CA63AEB-9A80-51C6-AE7F-E747D6B3B789.dita">Feature Manager</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>FM Transmitter Control APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides the ability to control the FM radio transmitter
of a Symbian device.</p></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><p><b>Haptics APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides methods for controlling the haptics feature of
the Symbian device. Both synchronous and asynchronous versions are
provided for playing various types of effects. Only synchronous methods
are provided for other functionalities, such as opening and closing
an actuator, reserving and releasing the haptics feature, and for
getting various state and system information from the haptics. For
more information, see <xref href="GUID-1D3AB781-058D-353D-A5CB-49F968160BDF.dita"><apiname>CHWRMHaptics</apiname></xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Home Screen Widget Publisher API</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides support for publishing logo and description of
a widget.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>IP Transport Layer APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides the implementation of IP address information parameters.
For more information, see <xref href="GUID-4CFF67A1-2D16-3544-A035-1DFBF453CDDA.dita"><apiname>CSubConIPAddressInfoParamSet</apiname></xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Libxm2 Library APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides APIs for XML processing, parsing and validation.
For more information, see <xref href="GUID-33D50AB9-AFA8-521F-8A85-031C24EA7D25.dita">Libxml2 Overview</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Location Centre Utility APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides the application, service and file launching services
to Location Centre. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-E941B121-6FA5-3E1C-828F-493CF451C400.dita"><apiname>CLcAppLauncher</apiname></xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>MBMS Parameter Plug-in APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides networking support for the 3GPP Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service (MBMS). For more information, see <xref href="GUID-AC63C51A-C0A3-5C2E-8EBF-DDB1A524A976.dita">MBMS Parameters</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>MTP Pictbridge Data Provider APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Enables printing of JPEG/JPG images stored on a Symbian
device directly to a <xref href="http://www.cipa.jp/english/pictbridge/" scope="external">Pictbridge</xref> capable printer by USB connection.
For more information, see <xref href="GUID-2E2EACDA-2750-3F77-AF67-745ABD5DFD30.dita"><apiname>RPtp</apiname></xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>OMAP 34xx Variant APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides interfaces for the OMAP 34xx Software Development
Platform.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>OpenMAX IL APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Supports the open standard version of OpenMAX developed
by the <xref href="http://www.khronos.org/" scope="external">Khronos
Group</xref>. The OpenMAX IL serves as a low-level interface for audio,
video and imaging components used in mobile devices. For more information,
see <xref href="GUID-E5900ED5-C49E-52B2-AE6D-CC0DB1F234A1.dita">OpenMAX
IL Collection</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>OpenMAX IL Core APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides a platform-specific entity used by the OpenMAX
IL client to access OpenMAX IL components. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-148B1188-8007-5077-A813-50F728CAC5D5.dita">OpenMAX IL Core Overview</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>OpenWF Composition APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Supports the open standard for layered graphics composition
developed by the <xref href="http://www.khronos.org/" scope="external">Khronos Group</xref>. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-3B9AC7E9-3133-505F-9C1E-EB4BB4969838.dita">OpenWF Composition
Interface Overview</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>OpenWF Support APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides a Symbian-specific implementation of platform-specific
elements of the OpenWF-C specification and abstracts communication
between the OpenWF-C Engine and other Symbian graphics components.
For more information, see <xref href="GUID-83510B5B-9725-5272-BF51-23A089178DAC.dita">OpenWF Support Component
Overview</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Puny Code Converter APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides support for converting the Unicode formatted domain
names to ASCII format that can be resolved by the external DNS server.
For more information, see <xref href="GUID-B008D6F3-DCC2-3715-AF89-50CF84BA8F88.dita"><apiname>TPunyCodeDndName</apiname></xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Service Discovery Framework APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides the functionality to provision the applications
who want to discover services and listen for service related notifications.
The service discovery and related notification are technology specific.
For more information, see <xref href="GUID-67FC4EBB-2F30-3235-BB19-5C53BD63D08C.dita"><apiname>RPnPServiceDiscovery</apiname></xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>SQLite 3 APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides an implementation of the native SQLite C APIs.
For more information, see <xref href="GUID-02C9C31A-6563-59E4-BF46-129F4ED95087.dita">SQLite 3</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Standard C++ Library (STLport v5) APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides a Standard C++ environment with IOStream and STL
(Standard Template Library) libraries that enable you to develop or
port Standard C++ applications or libraries quickly and easily onto
the Symbian platform. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-2C5B58F2-6BD2-5C2B-8E1B-CFB3D7EB6ED9.dita">Standard C++ Library
(STLport v5)</xref>.</p><note type="note">STLport v4 is also supported
on Symbian^3. For more information STLport v4, see <xref href="GUID-C5103B39-6F67-47E3-938A-32933E75F98E.dita">C++ Standard Library
(STLport v4)</xref>.</note></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Surface Manager APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Manages the lifetime and use of graphics composition surfaces
in system memory. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-C7B420DE-CEDA-5D3F-8095-71136E862CDF.dita">Surface Manager Component</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Surface Update APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides a communication mechanism between the composition
engine and its clients. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-81A0A2E9-4BB9-58BF-B2D3-08098E7E9C7C.dita">Surface Update Component</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>SyncML Framework Error Reporting API</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Contains the definitions of error reporting keys related
to the SyncML framework.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>SyncML Framework Customization API</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Contains the definitions of operator settings keys related
to the SyncML framework. This API is introduced to store the <codeph>cenrep</codeph> keys for operator specific implementation.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>System State Manager APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Controls transitioning of the device to different system
states, and reacts to changes made to the system-wide properties.
For more information, see <xref href="GUID-788BD091-186A-5E25-B058-952C7629A8D4.dita">System State Manager</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>System Health Manager APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides APIs for monitoring and restarting processes and
applications. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-70DA7D35-3EF3-5B9B-9E86-28893021A4A1.dita">System Health Manager</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Telephony Server Plug-in APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Translates modem messages into Symbian platform types. Symbian
platform provides interfaces which must be implemented in the TSY
for effective communication between the modem and Symbian platform.
For more information, see <xref href="GUID-F4A99C9F-21E8-57BF-9DE7-EA6C091C22E5.dita">Telephony Server
Plug-ins</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Touch Gesture Framework (FW)</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Converts a stream of pointer events into a logical gesture.
For more information, see <xref href="GUID-5CF8C529-7BCC-4E3E-AC9B-88E0A4CA333D.dita">Classic UI Guide</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><p><b>User Prompt Service APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Allows device creators to choose whether security decisions
(for example, allowing an application to make a network connection)
are processed silently or require the user to be prompted. For more
information, see <xref href="GUID-5329AE68-39E0-55E7-9878-2D8FF9E29B21.dita">User Prompt Service</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Video Renderer APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Renders video to a graphics surface. The Video Renderer
can be used by video decoders, video post-processors and video controllers.
For more information, see <xref href="GUID-98FBEA7E-78BA-5A64-90D6-4641418003B4.dita">Video Renderer Component</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>XML DOM Engine and XPath APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Implements the standard DOM API (tree-based XML parsing
and editing), including XPath and serialization extensions. For more
information, see <xref href="GUID-05A3E75B-25F9-54AC-8AF8-3E97F832E626.dita">XML DOM Engine</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody><related-links>
<linklist>
<link href="GUID-13987218-9427-455E-AC77-ADE6B0E9CD7E.dita"><linktext>Introduction
to Symbian^3</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-6F1ED7D0-5F41-4587-89AA-8DDE7AEC916F.dita"><linktext>What's
new in Symbian^3</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-021E8B9C-4A1B-4C6D-B69E-4337A766C39A.dita"><linktext>Porting
applications to Symbian^3</linktext></link>
</linklist>
</related-links></concept>