<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-E90A22C7-0AD7-55C4-83BB-165E1AA1E296"><title> Removing Keys</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>Private keys can be removed from the key store using the -remove command (-r for short). Consider a key labelled abc in the keystore. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-99C27ADD-5393-59A1-9EC3-0AB202C24450" xml:space="preserve">c:\&gt;keytool –list abc
Symbian OS KeyStore Manipulation Tool
Copyright (c) 2004-2009 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies).  All rights reserved.
Key imported successfully
    Algorithm: RSA    Size: 512 bits
    Usage: Pkcs15 Sign     Code: 0x4
    Owner: 0x101f7e95
    User: 0x101f7e95
    Access Flags: Extractable
    ID: 4d 15 e9 01 …
    Label: abc
    Native: Yes
    Start Date: not set     End Data: not set
</codeblock> <p>You can remove the key using the following command: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-514100C5-9561-5B60-A951-3C8A4F2EC021" xml:space="preserve">c:\&gt;keytool –remove abc
Symbian OS KeyStore Manipulation Tool
Copyright (c) 2004-2009 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies).  All rights reserved.
Key deleted successfully.
</codeblock> <p> <b>Note:</b>  <codeph>keytool</codeph> can only remove keys imported using the its or the emulator's keystore UI. Other keys will have a different owner and cannot, therefore, be removed in this fashion. </p> <p>The remove command supports the “*” and “?” wildcards on key labels. All the keys whose labels match the given pattern will be removed. For example, <codeph>c:\&gt;keytool –r *rsa*</codeph> will remove all the keys whose label contains the string “rsa”. </p> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-2E02B840-FF86-5535-BA0E-5C4C3B600E9B.dita"><linktext>Importing Private Keys</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-6DF71555-1AB0-5B50-9FEA-E775F3AFEF8B.dita"><linktext>Listing Keystore Contents</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-62AE0683-642D-539A-A590-3D8210591BD9.dita"><linktext>Working with Multiple Keystore
                Implementations</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>