<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-0EDFDB1E-B851-5871-B235-453A2B2F6BFB" xml:lang="en"><title>MMS
Settings Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>MMS Settings provides a generic way to store settings for Multimedia Message
Service (MMS) messaging. </p>
<p>Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) is a standard for telephone messaging
systems for sending messages that include multimedia objects (images, audio,
video, rich text). </p>
<section><title>Purpose</title> <p>Settings functionality is provided by the <filepath>mmsgenericsettings.dll</filepath> file
to allow a messaging client to persist MMS settings in the Central Repository.
The settings functionality is also used by the Server MTM to retrieve the
setting information before sending and receiving messages. </p> </section>
<section><title>Key terms</title> <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>IAP</dt>
<dd><p>Internet Access Point (IAP) offers dial-up access to Internet. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>WAP</dt>
<dd><p>Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) is a secure specification that
allows users to access information instantly through handheld wireless devices
such as mobile phones. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>WSP</dt>
<dd><p>Wireless Session Protocol (WSP) provides the upper-level application
layer of WAP with a consistent interface for connection-mode session service
and connectionless session service. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Central Repository</dt>
<dd><p>The Central Repository provides a user interface to allow one or more
clients to open repositories, and to provision and retrieve information from
those repositories. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
</dl> </section>
<section><title>Description</title> <p>The <filepath>mmsgenericsettings.dll</filepath> file
provides message settings encapsulation classes to manage MMS settings. The
MMS settings are stored in the central repository and MMS are stored in the
Message Store. </p> <p>The following settings are supported by <filepath>mmsgenericsettings.dll</filepath> to
manage MMS settings: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-A505F5BF-6604-520F-9B22-63404BD04F2D"><p>MMSC (MMS server) address </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-6F7A3C4D-36BD-5AD6-A892-0713D95D18AB"><p>WSP or HTTP transport
(the HTTP or WSP transport can be selected at the run-time). </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-6515A2F5-9DE3-58D3-B64C-F2424ACD90FF"><p>Automatically get messages
on notification </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-22EDBCFF-861F-5C59-9143-575F23DDB79B"><p>Request delivery reports </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C62BC75D-DAE8-51E9-8097-24D2A76DF513"><p>Preferred IAP for the
MMS network connection </p> <p>If connection fails with the preferred IAP
or WAP account, a connection using the second choice option, if present, is
made. The transport selection (WSP or HTTP) determines whether the WAP or
HTTP account preferences are applied. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>API summary</title> <p>The following APIs are used for MMS
settings: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-A83F08BF-9443-5264-BFA7-94B0CB3511BD"><p>The <xref href="GUID-45F828BF-DC03-3C82-89B5-010687BDE91D.dita"><apiname>CMmsAccounts</apiname></xref> class
is used to store and restore the configuration settings. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-5D775323-165D-539F-AF3A-9E6458C60E90"><p>The <xref href="GUID-1E1BA9E3-52E1-3AE6-BC62-3EBDA577107F.dita"><apiname>CMmsSettings</apiname></xref> class
is used to specify and retrieve configuration settings. Messaging clients
must use an instance of this class along with the <xref href="GUID-45F828BF-DC03-3C82-89B5-010687BDE91D.dita"><apiname>CMmsAccounts</apiname></xref> class
to store and restore the configuration settings. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8D4045E2-B720-5E15-A929-750054FB5226"><p>The <xref href="GUID-C79B080E-8BE7-3126-93B9-BA59B90C2200.dita"><apiname>MMmsSettingsObserver</apiname></xref> class
is used to provide the interface for notification of changes that occur in
the Central Repository. </p> </li>
</ul> <p><b> Message encapsulation </b> </p> <p>The classes above provide
message access functionality which is used to create, store, restore and read
messages. The following are the functions of the message classes: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-A3DF991D-2A3E-5B39-ACBF-EC9F8F651CC1"><p>Adding media objects
to the message. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-AA60377A-0656-56F3-9962-468DD6ED6CB1"><p>Enumerating through
media objects. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8C5AB526-139C-5F07-90E1-CBC40DB962D8"><p>Adding recipients and
a subject line to a message. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-07D074D7-A3E4-59EF-9BAD-E7B1FB47435B"><p>Adding other headers
to the message. For example, expiry date. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9365FAB8-5F61-510D-9FBA-3CB14B06E5DD"><p>Finding the appropriate
media object for a given Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) in the Synchronized
Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL). </p> </li>
</ul> <p>The message data is stored in the central repository using one entry
per message regardless of the number of media objects added to the message.
This is preferable to using multiple message entries as it is faster and uses
less disk space. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>