<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-148B1188-8007-5077-A813-50F728CAC5D5" xml:lang="en"><title>OpenMAX
IL Core Overview </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This document introduces you to the Symbian way of using OpenMAX IL Core. </p>
<section><title>Purpose</title> <p>OpenMAX IL Core is a platform-specific
entity used by the OpenMAX IL client to access OpenMAX IL Components. </p> </section>
<section><title>API name library details</title><p>The Dynamic Link Library
(DLL) that provides the OpenMAX IL Core functionality and the library to which
your code must include is identified in the table below. </p> <table id="GUID-483E01A3-9FC7-530D-8E06-31899F5CB862">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>DLL</entry>
<entry>LIB</entry>
<entry>Short Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>omxilcoreclient.dll</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <b>omxilcoreclient.lib</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>These files are used for implementing OpenMAX IL Core. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section id="GUID-782B851D-CACF-55F8-9F5B-A839C5A3ABAA"><title>Architectural
relationship</title> <p>The Symbian implementation of OpenMAX IL Core uses
the OpenMAX IL Loader pattern, which </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-B681E28D-7ED6-556A-80B6-890F5ABBE544"><p>creates a list of all
the ECom implementations of the OpenMAX IL Loader interface installed in the
system (identified by the <xref href="GUID-DBC308FC-FF91-314D-B633-6AE020917511.dita"><apiname>KUidOmxILLoaderInterface</apiname></xref> UID) </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B75550FD-736F-541B-B794-52951AA13099"><p>loops through the list
to instantiate and initialize all the loaders </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2DA7B6F3-4EF3-57DC-83C2-0C48327B6D8C"><p>delegates particular
component functionality to its loaders </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-597D18AF-8993-5BE0-A191-BF9099125962"><p>creates a list of all
the ECom implementations of the OpenMAX IL Content Pipe interface installed
in the system (identified by the <xref href="GUID-DBC0A3AD-C7FD-3BE4-B3AE-D7012EAC5783.dita"><apiname>KUidOmxILContentPipeIf</apiname></xref> UID). </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>Description</title> <p>OpenMAX IL Core is used to load and
unload the OpenMAX IL Components and to facilitate communication between them.
The OpenMAX IL Core entity interacts with all </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-BC9738D0-269D-552A-B4B5-5C7C1126CEEC"><p>OpenMAX IL Loaders available
in the system </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-945E971D-6D9C-5211-B2E4-158BC3EC07D6"><p>OpenMAX IL Components
available in the system </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-24CBA8CD-4E9B-5A4B-B55C-B7ED76CA8404"><p>OpenMAX IL Content Pipe
available in the system. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>Key OpenMAX IL Core classes</title> <p>OpenMAX IL Core is
a C-based API defined by <xref href="http://www.khronos.org/openmax/" scope="external">The
Khronos group</xref>. Full details are available in <xref href="http://www.khronos.org/files/openmax_il_spec_1_1_1.pdf" scope="external">OpenMAX IL Specification 1.1.1</xref> where the API is documented. </p> </section>
<section><title>Using OpenMAX IL Core</title> <p>OpenMAX IL Core is used by
the OpenMAX IL client to access OpenMAX IL Components as explained in the
OpenMAX IL specification document on the <xref href="http://www.khronos.org/openmax/" scope="external">The Khronos group</xref> website. </p> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-F97ABEDE-C318-5EA2-B8CB-6510725413A0.dita"><linktext>OpenMAX IL
Loader Interface Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-89CFD892-16B0-5B70-AE46-D4BFB8412BC4.dita"><linktext>OpenMAX IL
Content Pipe Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-24D99069-438E-5CC4-90B6-5609A2E50953.dita"><linktext>OpenMAX IL
Component Overview</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>