<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-2C0C173D-C659-4011-8B7A-8EB35E64D150" xml:lang="en"><title>Touch
gestures</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The touch gestures (finger movements on the device display area) are interpreted
using touch gesture framework provided by UI framework.  The UI FW listens
to the pointer events and notifies the client after recognizing the gestures.
The client can enable listening of desired gestures.</p>
<p> The touch gesture framework supports the following single touch gestures:<ul>
<li><p>Tap</p></li>
<li><p>Double tap</p></li>
<li><p>Drag</p></li>
<li><p>Flick</p></li>
<li><p>Swipe (up, down, left and right)</p></li>
</ul> Gesture Framework can provide swipe speed that can be used as input
to inertia based effects. Two finger pinch (zoom) multi-touch gesture is also
recognized.</p>
<p> Additionally, there is an option to support drag and drop. It is initiated
by holding the touch position for a short time in the same place. The holding
mode is active until the user releases the touch. </p>
<section id="GUID-8E20288C-9B08-484E-8212-040D8B47BC6F">       <title>Using
touch gestures in C++ applications</title><p>The API to use for recognizing
touch gestures is Touch Gesture API.</p><p>Touch Gesture Framework contains
a pointer to a control (derived from <xref href="GUID-B06F99BD-F032-3B87-AB26-5DD6EBE8C160.dita"><apiname>CCoeControl</apiname></xref>) where
gestures are recognized. These gestures are reported to the gesture observer.
Based on the gesture interest set by the gesture observer, <xref href="GUID-C0559E40-20E1-3D2C-A6EF-51F3E80A651E.dita"><apiname>CAknTouchGestureFw</apiname></xref> converts
the pointer events to the logical gesture.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>