<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-AFF0B669-E0D8-5533-A105-0F5EBC6AF5E1"><title>List of Symbian tools</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This section provides links to the documentation for the tools provided with Symbian platform. Note that these lists are not exhaustive. </p> <p> <b>Note:</b> Additional tools for integrating and customising software to produce a Symbian-based platform or phone are supplied as part of Platform Developer Toolkit (PDT). The tools include Symbian Build System v2 (SBSv2), API Usage Report Analysis (AURA), Code Database (CDB), Component Based Release (CBR), EmulatorBuild, Symbian Test Automation Tool (STAT), Test Execute Framework (TEF), TestDriver, Use Case Controller (UCC) and WinTAP. Documentation for these tools is supplied with the PDT. </p> <section><title>Application development tools</title> <p>The application development tools help to speed up development of Symbian platform applications. </p> <table id="GUID-297995D9-2C57-5FAF-8BA3-A4B4DD0D197A"><tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><thead><row><entry>Name</entry> <entry>Description</entry> <entry>Reference</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p>Application Resource Tools </p> </entry> <entry><p>Tools for building resource files. </p> </entry> <entry><p><xref href="GUID-617A7B7E-DF91-5757-B473-D2E0B665F5E4.dita">Application resource tools guide</xref>  </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>Build Tools </p> </entry> <entry><p>Tools used to build Symbian platform programs. </p> </entry> <entry><p><xref href="GUID-B21141D4-3BFE-59C9-8D5F-147A93BE1C95.dita">Build tools guide</xref>  </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> <p>In addition to these, the Symbian Build System v2 (SBSv2) provides tools for building Symbian platform and applications developed for Symbian platform. For more information about SBSv2, see <i>Symbian Build System v2</i> provided with PDT. </p> </section> <section><title> Analysis tools</title> <table id="GUID-5D9F7579-4456-56AA-896D-82504906BBF1"><tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><thead><row><entry>Name</entry> <entry>Description</entry> <entry>Reference</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p>Capability Management tools </p> </entry> <entry><p>Allows you to compare the capabilities of binaries that are developed against Symbian platform. </p> </entry> <entry><p><xref href="GUID-01F1C399-25F6-54E8-B48D-521187A63096.dita">Capability Management tools</xref>  </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>Set capability test tool </p> </entry> <entry><p>Allows you to make a copy of an executable and assign different capabilities to it. </p> </entry> <entry><p><xref href="GUID-1CBDCDE6-1FC6-59BE-BA4A-9EAD3D6627CD.dita">Set Capability Test tool</xref>  </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> <p>In addition to these, Symbian provides more analysis tools as part of the PDT. </p> </section> </conbody></concept>