<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-4911D998-5B1A-53E1-B1A7-920748489CD0" xml:lang="en"><title>print</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p><userinput>print [ -acilmnNoOPrsz ] [ -u n ] [ -f format ] [ -C cols ]
[ -R [ -en ]] [ arg ... ] </userinput> </p>
<p>With the <codeph>-f</codeph> option the arguments are printed as described
by <xref href="GUID-6D59E35B-6572-519A-8CFD-CB7781DDE631.dita">printf</xref>. With
no flags or with the flag <codeph>-</codeph>, the arguments are printed on
the standard output as described by <xref href="GUID-728F278B-30C8-5FA8-AD03-4C759690416E.dita">echo</xref>,
with the following differences: the escape sequence <codeph>\M-x</codeph> metafies
the character <codeph>x</codeph> (sets the highest bit), <codeph>\C-x</codeph> produces
a control character (<codeph>\C-@ </codeph> and <codeph>\C-?</codeph> give
the characters NULL and delete), and <codeph>\E</codeph> is a synonym for <codeph>\e</codeph>.
Finally, if not in an escape sequence, <codeph>\</codeph> escapes the following
character and is not printed. </p>
<table id="GUID-DD03FA46-A1EE-586E-9C0C-B5AF20B79E06">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Option</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-a</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Prints the arguments with the column incrementing first. Only useful
with the <codeph>-c </codeph> and <codeph>-C</codeph> options. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-c</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Print the arguments in columns. Unless <codeph>-a</codeph> is also
given, arguments are printed with the row incrementing first. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-C cols </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Print the arguments in <codeph>cols</codeph> columns. Unless <codeph>-a</codeph> is
also given, arguments are printed with the row incrementing first. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-i</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>If given together with <codeph>-o</codeph> or <codeph>-O</codeph>,
sorting is performed case-independently. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-l</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Print the arguments separated by newlines instead of spaces. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-m</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Take the first argument as a pattern (should be quoted), and remove
it from the argument list together with subsequent arguments that do not match
this pattern. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-n</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Do not add a newline to the output. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-N</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Print the arguments separated and terminated by nulls. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-o</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Print the arguments sorted in ascending order. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-O</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Print the arguments sorted in descending order. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-P</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Perform prompt expansion </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-r</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Ignore the escape conventions of echo. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-R</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Emulate the BSD echo command, which does not process escape sequences
unless the <codeph>-e</codeph> flag is given. The <codeph>-n</codeph> flag
suppresses the trailing newline. Only the <codeph>-e</codeph> and <codeph>-n
                </codeph> flags are recognized after <codeph>-R</codeph>;
all other arguments and options are printed. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-s</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Place the results in the history list instead of on the standard
output. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-u n</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Print the arguments to file descriptor <codeph>n</codeph>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-z</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Push the arguments onto the editing buffer stack, separated by spaces. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>If any of <codeph>-m</codeph>, <codeph>-o</codeph> or <codeph>-O</codeph> are
used in combination with <codeph>-f</codeph> and there are no arguments (after
the removal process in the case of <codeph>-m</codeph>) then nothing is printed. </p>
<p> <b>Note:</b> The Symbian platform does not support the use
of the <codeph>-b</codeph>, <codeph>-d</codeph>, and <codeph>-p</codeph> options. </p>
</conbody></concept>