<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-6D29FF23-B034-5FE9-90C3-A62CD54D67D3"><title>TRANSP Property</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody> <p>The Time Transparency property is used to determine whether an attendee will appear in an event for a busy time search. It is represented by TRANSP. </p> <p>Although Transparency is supported in both vCalendar and iCalendar, the values that they take are in different formats. Examples of Transparency properties are given below for both formats: </p> <table id="GUID-61F469DC-1359-50C6-BF7A-26F9F37ECA4F"><tgroup cols="1"><colspec colname="col0"/><thead><row><entry>iCalendar</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p>TRANSP:OPAQUE </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>TRANSP:TRANSPARENT </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> <p> </p> <table id="GUID-163B001D-2E8B-5C67-830A-B83E1CF378AE"><tgroup cols="1"><colspec colname="col0"/><thead><row><entry>vCalendar</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p>TRANSP:0 </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>TRANSP:1 </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p>TRANSP:2 </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> <p>The TRANSP property is set to OPAQUE or '0' by default. In the vCalendar specification, the TRANSP property can be any positive integer value. 0 blocks time, 1 is transparent and doesn’t block time. Any higher value has an implementation-specific meaning. In the iCalendar specification (RFC 2445), the TRANSP property can be either OPAQUE (blocks time) or TRANSPARENT (does not block time). </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-725D11A2-8805-3466-98DB-EF5CDEAF2801.dita"><apiname>CCalEntry::SetTimeTransparencyL(CCalEntry::TTransp
        aBusyStatus)</apiname></xref> sets the busy status for this entry to the given value. A <xref href="GUID-725D11A2-8805-3466-98DB-EF5CDEAF2801.dita"><apiname>KErrArgument</apiname></xref> occurs if <xref href="GUID-725D11A2-8805-3466-98DB-EF5CDEAF2801.dita"><apiname>aBusyStatus</apiname></xref> is a value less than 0. </p> <p>Any values greater than '1' in vCalendar will provide implementation-specific transparency semantics. Some implementations may treat values greater than one as non-blocking or transparent events. Other implementations may use the numeric value to provide extra layering of levels of transparency. </p> </conbody></concept>