<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-28D13F63-9D72-5D70-BE81-3B4E54B3A8C1" xml:lang="en"><title>DNS
Proxy Server Initialization Settings </title><shortdesc>This topics describes the initialization settings of the DNS Proxy
server. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>DNS Proxy server on start up reads the initialization information from <filepath>resolver.ini</filepath> file
which stores the initialization settings. This provides the connection information
on which the DNS Proxy server starts receiving DNS requests. </p>
<p>The <filepath>resolver.ini</filepath> file is located in the following
folder: <filepath>z:\private\200215f1\</filepath>. If there is no file or
if some values are missing then the DNS proxy starts with the default values. </p>
<section id="GUID-337E6F01-A404-4DEA-8914-D8FDED392474"><title>Initialization setting parameters</title> <p>The following
table lists the parameters, description and default values present in the <filepath>.ini</filepath> file. </p> <table id="GUID-C8AEF62F-6FE4-5C3B-B987-631549540716">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Parameters</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
<entry>Default values</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>sessioncount </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This value represents the maximum number of resolver sessions that
can handle the incoming queries. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>1</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>retries </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This value represents the number of retries made for resolving the
query. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>2</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>queuesize </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This value represents the maximum queries that can be handled by
the DNS Proxy server. Queries are dropped if the queue is full. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>20 </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>TTL </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Time to Live field. This value represents the validity period for
the local query response measured in seconds. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>21600 seconds </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>dbsize </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This value represents the maximum size of the DNS Proxy server non-persistent
DB. This is an optional parameter to prevent DoS attacks. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>10 </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>timerval </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This value represents the timer value for the response timer, that
is, the number of seconds the DNS Proxy server waits for the response before
timing out. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>5 seconds </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>serialnum </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This value is stored but is not used. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>10000 </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>refreshtim </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This value is stored but is not used. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>900 seconds </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>retrytime </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This value is stored but is not used. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>600 seconds </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>expiretime </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This value is stored but is not used. </p> </entry>
<entry><p>300 seconds </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p> <note>All the parameters in the <filepath>.ini</filepath> file
are optional. </note></p> </section>
<example><title>DNS Proxy initialization settings example</title> <p>The following
is an example DNS Proxy section from a <b>resolver.ini</b> file: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-4EFFA9AE-80AA-5C84-BFB5-2202147DB256" xml:space="preserve">
[proxyresolver]
sessioncount= 5
retries= 2
queuesize= 20
TTL= 21600
dbsize= 10
timerval= 5
serialnum= 10000
refreshtim= 900
retrytime= 600
expiretime= 86400
</codeblock> </example>
</conbody></concept>