<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-D729BD58-D4FE-5D46-ACD4-F78B37BA833A" xml:lang="en"><title>GNU
Assembler Source Format</title><shortdesc>Describes the rules that you must follow if you use GNU assembler
syntax.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The platform-specific source code can be written in GNU assembler
syntax or ARM assembler syntax.</p>
<p>The generic source and header files are all written using the ARM assembler
syntax, as are the source files for the template and example ports. However
the bootstrap can be built using the GNU assembler; in this case, source files
are translated from ARM to GNU assembler syntax automatically. </p>
<p>The rules that you must follow to use GNU assembler syntax in the platform-specific
source are: </p>
<ul>
<li id="GUID-4D2E66B7-D3DE-5877-817B-316E16612AAC"><p>The first non-blank
line of any GNU-syntax source or header file should start with an @ (the GNU
comment delimiter); this acts as a directive to the translation tool that
no translation is required. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-BDEE2BA7-5FD4-5BC0-B945-8E598388019C"><p>Files included from
GNU source should be included with a <filepath>.ginc</filepath> extension
instead of the normal <filepath>.inc</filepath> extension. However the file
itself should have a <filepath>.inc</filepath> extension. </p> </li>
</ul>
<p>To enable the generic makefile to work correctly, assembler source files
should always be given the extension <filepath>.s</filepath> and assembler
include files <filepath>.inc</filepath>; this is independent of whether these
are ARM or GNU syntax. </p>
</conbody></concept>