<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-1AA1466C-707A-5A28-8B35-E9F4BBD69ABA" xml:lang="en"><title>Category:
PLAT-Generic Kernel</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>These panics represent errors which are detected by generic Kernel code.
They are caused by passing bad or contradictory parameters to functions.</p>
<p>The thread causing the panic is terminated.</p>
<table id="GUID-368296FD-66B3-54BC-B531-6F096BEB783D">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>0</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised at system startup time if the secondary process
cannot be created.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>2</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised when a semaphore, a <xref href="GUID-76265A73-5D41-3F85-A482-6627257154D2.dita"><apiname>DPlatSemaphore</apiname></xref>,
is created and a negative count value is passed to the member function creating
it.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>3</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised when a semaphore, a <codeph>DPlatSemaphore</codeph>,
is signalled and the count value, if specified, is negative.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>6</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised when fetching the home address of a specified
address relative to the thread's process and the specified address is invalid.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>7.8.9</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>These panics are raised when an illegal attempt is made to kill
a thread, a <xref href="GUID-3DBB4A86-D4CE-35ED-8FF7-0811E3A05FAC.dita"><apiname>DPlatThread</apiname></xref>; the thread may already be dead
or its status may be unknown.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>12</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p> This panic is raised when an attempt is made to resume the first
thread in a process, a <xref href="GUID-586E842E-7F35-332C-AAC4-8BE25182C3D2.dita"><apiname>DPlatProcess</apiname></xref>, when that process
has not been loaded.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>15</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised when looking up a function by ordinal in a
library, a <xref href="GUID-46530B04-82C7-3A7C-B60B-30410EFA2057.dita"><apiname>DPlatLibrary</apiname></xref>. The panic occurs when the specified
ordinal number is zero or negative.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>16</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised because of a failure in the initialization
of the Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL); specifically, the startup reason
is not recognized.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>17</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised because of a failure in the initialization
of the HAL; specifically, the keyboard could not be initialized.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>18</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p> This panic is raised because of a failure in the initialization
of the HAL; specifically, the x-y input device could not be initialized.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>19-21</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>These panics are raised by failures during system startup.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>22</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised when a failure occurs in dispatching an exception.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>64</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised when an attempt is made to create a hardware
chunk when that chunk has already been created.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>80</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised when a Kernel fixed heap is being created and
the specified maximum length is negative.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>81</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised when the Kernel attempts to mutate a fixed
heap into a chunk heap and the specified minimum length is different from
the current minimum length.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>83</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p><i>This panic is raised in debug builds only.</i> </p> <p>This panic
is raised by the millisecond timer when a call back has already been queued.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>87</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p><i>This panic is raised in debug builds only.</i> </p> <p>This panic
is raised during debugging when handling an exception by the <xref href="GUID-2D3F457D-F575-3B52-8C70-ADF4D004B99A.dita#GUID-2D3F457D-F575-3B52-8C70-ADF4D004B99A/GUID-4B902E02-1248-34B7-8517-6232A281D343"><apiname>Debug::HandleException</apiname></xref>function,
and a write operation to the remote thread running the monitor program fails.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>88</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised when setting up the context for a newly created
thread and the specified thread type, which defines the context, is not recognized.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>90</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised if there is no screen-switch-on handler.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>91</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised if a system thread has been panicked.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>92</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This panic is raised when an attempt is made to move a fixed address
chunk.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>93-99</codeph> </p> </entry>
<entry><p>These panics are raised during initialization of the MMU (Memory
Management Unit) if creation of various components fails; for example, the
domain allocator or the page table linear allocator.</p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody></concept>