<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-A4560E99-C124-49A1-ADA1-D1B1F18EE539" xml:lang="en"><title>Relationship
between framework and applications</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p><draft-comment time="2007-03-05T10:12">Comment for reviewers: we will
be adding a picture to illustrate this point in future releases of the CDL.</draft-comment></p>
<p>The displays and keys for the mobile device are shared between all running
applications. The Symbian platform controls and coordinates access to them.
When you meet the <xref href="GUID-BDDDF68F-F7C3-43AF-8B6C-C77C701FD2A9.dita">application
framework architecture</xref> requirements, the application framework manages
connections to the underlying architecture and also controls some of the elements
on the display. While the details of what is controlled by default by the
Symbian platform and what is controlled by your application are covered in
the relevant sections of this UI section, the following cases illustrate some
divisions about what is managed where: </p>
<ul>
<li><p>in the status pane: </p>
<itemgroup>
<p>The drawing of the status pane is managed by the Symbian platform.</p>
<p>The <i>battery pane/universal indicator pane</i> and <i>signal pane</i> are
managed by the Symbian platform.</p>
<p>The <i>title pane</i>, <i>context pane,</i> and <i>navi pane</i> are
managed by your application, although a default behavior is provided by the
application framework.</p>
</itemgroup>
</li>
<li><p>in the control pane:</p>
<itemgroup>
<p>The drawing of the control pane is managed by the Symbian platform.</p>
<p>The labels associated with the two softkeys are provided by application
resources.</p>
<p>The event loop that collects the commands that result from selections
and the passing of these commands on to your application are handled by the
application framework.</p>
<p>The <xref href="GUID-4941C035-C359-4968-9BD5-31F44EE5F810.dita">handling
of the commands</xref> received from the application framework need to be
handled in your application.</p>
<p>For more details, see <xref href="GUID-A4F3738C-CBFD-4151-9132-26FE05966715.dita">CBA buttons</xref> and <xref href="GUID-5918ED8A-B26B-41A0-94A6-AB6D51BF80A1.dita">Menu
bars</xref>.</p>
</itemgroup>
</li>
</ul>
</conbody></concept>