<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="GUID-63293544-EACF-5F55-BBB5-7A471B4F9A69" xml:lang="en"><title>PKG
File Format for Preinstallation</title><abstract><p>The SIS files that are installed using <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> can
be configured to be non-removable. If an attempt is made to uninstall a non-removable
package, an error (<codeph>KErrNotSupported</codeph>) is reported to the UI.
In the package header for non-removable packages, an additional <xref href="GUID-D9D20EE0-AC86-512A-91C0-EA0ACF3912A7.dita#GUID-D9D20EE0-AC86-512A-91C0-EA0ACF3912A7/GUID-3C2E7248-23BD-5A9C-BC4F-2F86B1A94002">package-type</xref> of <codeph>NR</codeph> must be specified. For example: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-036D2CCE-53A0-55BC-AB45-6F9265B49CD4" xml:space="preserve">#{"PackageName"}, (0x80000001), 1, 2, 3, TYPE=SA, NR</codeblock> <p>InterpretSIS
is the preferred mechanism to install non-removable base packages, as Software
Installer only allows you to install a NR base package if it has been signed
using the System Upgrade certificate. If an attempt is made to install a non-removable
base package not signed with a SU cert using the software installer, an error
(<codeph>KErrNotSupported</codeph>) is returned. </p><note>When replacing
or upgrading a non-removable base package using the software installer, the
upgrade package must also be non-removable. See <xref href="GUID-474A9F80-2B3E-5D11-8D2E-95E217BEB84A.dita">Preinstalled
Package Upgrades</xref> for more information. </note> <p>The following restrictions
apply to the syntax of the PKG files used to create the SIS files for input
to <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph>: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-9DFAD518-B3AF-5D78-92C2-6B0E2C12924C"><p><xref href="GUID-FF82B80D-18CA-5333-83EB-3AB94F696016.dita">Options-List</xref> is
not supported – raises an error. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-4577E70F-45B1-55D4-AF53-A96127EE7E3D"><p>Embedded SIS Files –
raises a warning. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-0C9F6AED-4F20-5914-854C-B2745D50126B"><p> <codeph>FILETEXT</codeph>, <codeph>FILERUN</codeph> and <codeph>FILEMIME</codeph> install
options are not supported – raises a warning. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-7EE19A35-0E29-5C23-B929-74F425D4C673"><p>PP not supported. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>The <codeph>-c</codeph> argument to <xref href="GUID-4BDC9F63-83A1-53A5-91A0-B092AA821755.dita">MakeSIS</xref> can
be used to test whether the PKG file is syntactically valid for <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph>.
Breaching any of the preceding restrictions causes <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> to
fail, reporting a negative error code. </p> <p> <b>Notes</b>: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-3E6D1ADE-BB43-551E-96CB-7CA7BFF14FBF"><p>Device creators must
extract the embedded SIS files using <xref href="GUID-42CF6D55-CAD2-5049-A1B6-35479404C273.dita">DumpSIS</xref> and
install them in separate SIS files. Although the <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> can
install SIS files that have embedded SIS files it displays a warning if the
embedded SIS file is not already installed. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-CC06C2B8-456B-54D4-BE63-05D9DBD27E47"><p>SIS files can contain <xref href="GUID-DB220677-5998-529C-BE35-0D66F588E057.dita">dependencies</xref>, which
must be satisfied. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C3FDBD3A-48B0-5269-A126-328D31C48CD0"><p> <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> reports
an error if any target file locations violate the rules imposed by <i>data
caging</i>, summarised <xref href="GUID-54E62386-E4DB-55C3-BA9A-FFB7BFE6703E.dita#GUID-54E62386-E4DB-55C3-BA9A-FFB7BFE6703E/GUID-C8E8AB80-4EE5-5593-8981-4A91A0111419">here</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B27F0573-5FBF-5645-AB4E-A6836101F843"><p>In any language-dependent
statements, for example <xref href="GUID-9D5F3B5E-37FB-5156-808B-F92519412A7F.dita">Language-Dependent
Files</xref> lists, InterpretSIS always selects English if the input language
has not been provided by the command-line option or in the INI file. If the
given input language is not in the list of supported languages of the SIS
file, it selects the first language in the SIS file </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A4FA8C80-B7B5-5D93-A51B-08A4D64694C1"><p> <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> does
not display the <xref href="GUID-F87A1381-3E71-5723-B8B6-3F4E0FF368CE.dita">Logo</xref> during
installation. However, it installs them. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-CE3EA24D-2170-565C-8F3C-8AA0F1F7BDE2"><p> <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> does
not perform signature verification or revocation checking when installing
packages. Also, it does not perform policing of capabilities allocated to
executables. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2AAE33CC-00B1-5B45-84A3-D819B8B6BBCD"><p>Packages installed using <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> have
their validation status set to <codeph>EValidatedToAnchor</codeph>. </p> </li>
</ul> </abstract><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog></reference>