<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-A4426CEC-80F1-53F4-8838-D069FA758ACD" xml:lang="en"><title>FontsShell:
fonts</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p> <b>Note: </b> This example is designed to work with TechView and there
is no guarantee that it will work with other interfaces. </p>
<section><title>Description</title> <p> <filepath>FontsShell</filepath> provides
an application shell and two concrete controls. </p> <p> <codeph>CGraphicExampleControl</codeph> is
a control class, derived from <codeph>CCoeControl</codeph>, which links the
app shell to the particular controls. </p> <p> <codeph>CHelloControl</codeph> illustrates
the drawing of text using a standard font. </p> <p> <codeph>CFontControl</codeph> illustrates
the use of fonts. </p> </section>
<section><title>Download</title> <p>Click on the following link to download
the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-e6602c15-dd08-48ac-8e9a-9f6c0a47cd80.zip" scope="external">Fonts.zip</xref></p>Download some additional files required
by the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-a92c7d47-fa68-49c6-9e43-c9c2e650f219.zip" scope="external">CommonGraphicsExampleFiles</xref><p>Click: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-e6602c15-dd08-48ac-8e9a-9f6c0a47cd80.html" scope="peer">browse</xref> to view the example code. </p>View the additional
files: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-a92c7d47-fa68-49c6-9e43-c9c2e650f219.html" scope="peer">browse</xref>.  </section>
<section><title>Class Summary</title><p>By the hello control: </p><p><xref href="GUID-101762DC-E498-3325-88AB-B0FF17DC62B6.dita"><apiname>TRect </apiname></xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-0AEE5955-C530-35F1-A904-69183331B294.dita"><apiname>CWindowGc</apiname></xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-2A12FE3B-47F2-3016-8161-A971CA506491.dita"><apiname>CFont</apiname></xref></p><p>By the fonts control: </p><p><xref href="GUID-0AEE5955-C530-35F1-A904-69183331B294.dita"><apiname>CWindowGc</apiname></xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-BC6BFC0A-B748-3545-8A14-D79F98338CBA.dita"><apiname>TTypefaceSupport</apiname></xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-052E4F6B-71C5-304C-B387-07A2F6F9900B.dita"><apiname>TFontSpec</apiname></xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-DDE4C9C0-7218-385E-B239-0DEFDE19FCCC.dita"><apiname>TZoomFactor</apiname></xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-4791F2C1-C351-3824-8784-3161F5B65DCA.dita"><apiname>MGraphicsDeviceMap</apiname></xref></p></section>
<section><title>Build</title> <p>The source code for this example application
can be found in the directory: </p> <p> <filepath>examples\Graphics\Fonts</filepath>  </p> <p>It
may be in the directory in which you installed Symbian platform, or it may
be in <filepath>src\common\developerlibrary\</filepath>. It includes the two
project files needed for building: <filepath>bld.inf</filepath> and the <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-3100800B-B2F7-50EF-BD4C-3C345ECCB2A5.dita">The Symbian platform build
process</xref> describes how to build this application. For the emulator,
an application called <filepath>FontsShell.exe</filepath> is created in <filepath>epoc32\release\winscw\&lt;udeb
or urel&gt;\</filepath>. </p> </section>
<section><title>Usage</title> <ol id="GUID-DCDC0027-6DFA-55F7-90CB-2FEA09F27A5A">
<li id="GUID-FB26843D-A42C-5725-B9E3-4F5DF55AC8B6"><p>Launch the emulator: </p> <p> <filepath>\epoc32\release\winscw\&lt;urel
or udeb&gt;\EPOC.EXE</filepath>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-29CD7693-CAE2-5FD2-9F60-D776A4C7AE98"><p>Click on <systemoutput>FONTSSHELL</systemoutput> to
run the application. If using the <i>TechView</i> emulator, this will be in
the <i>Extras</i> menu. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-5F43BCA0-8A25-5241-8C69-F3708F794E14"><p>The controls are listed
on the menu <systemoutput>List of                 Programs</systemoutput>.
Press the appropriate menu item to select a specific control. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-94E5BAF0-FC69-52BA-941C-C10ED6A74EF9"><p>Step through each phase
of the example by pressing the space bar or by tapping on the window drawn
by that example. </p> </li>
</ol> </section>
</conbody></concept>