<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-201E6D4C-5F0F-5AA2-BC79-91E3C62C8971"><title>How to write a meta file</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>A meta file is an additional information file associated with each template extension makefile. It is used to set values to attributes to specify the build platform, makefile type and default option values for the extension. The meta file name is same as that of the associated template extension makefile, except the <codeph>.mk</codeph> suffix is replaced with <codeph>.meta</codeph>. </p> <p>The following provides a step-by-step explanation to write a meta file: </p> <ol id="GUID-B26671F6-0D9E-51F2-979D-856C3DDDC8A5"><li id="GUID-31BD0842-CE03-5FA7-BDC4-D86D8119E25E"><p>Specify whether the makefile is of type <codeph>gnumake</codeph> (GCC make format) or <codeph>nmake</codeph> (Microsoft make format) using the keyword <codeph>makefile</codeph>. It is recommended to use <codeph>gnumake</codeph>, as most of the templates are based on GNU <codeph>make</codeph> format. The value <codeph>nmake</codeph> is not recommended as use of <codeph>nmake</codeph> is deprecated. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-7C06A926-88BD-515A-9FC1-88D83F8969F2"><p>Specify the platform using the keyword <codeph>platform</codeph> which is optional. it is useful to specify the platform, if you want to build for a specific platform such as WINSCW, ARMV5 and so on. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-B7B48487-D5B0-5938-8AD8-E2E34727F203"><p>Specify the default values for options specific to the extension, using the keyword <codeph>option</codeph> which is optional. These default values can be changed in the <filepath>bld.inf</filepath> file within the <codeph>START
             EXTENSION ... END</codeph> block. For more information on <codeph>START
             EXTENSION</codeph>, refer to <xref href="GUID-2910AB26-CA7C-50B9-A187-0C8406C1ED1F.dita">prj_extensions</xref>. </p> </li> </ol> <p>For more information on meta file syntax, refer to <xref href="GUID-E6CB4891-AFC8-50BB-A2C8-057DB1269DA9.dita">Meta Files</xref>. </p> </conbody></concept>