<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-F89F92BA-763D-5531-BF74-C6BF36A589CD"><title>Creating Snapshots</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This document introduces you to creating a snaphot. </p> <section><title>Purpose</title> <p>This document describes the various APIs used to create a snapshot. </p> <p><b>Introduction</b> </p> <p>Snapshot shows the captured images on the display almost instantaneously. Snapshots may be created for video as well and the client may further specify the video frames from which the snapshot can be generated. </p> <p>The client can specify the properties of the snapshot, such as size, background colour and position to be used if the snapshot has been scaled, etc. Snapshot can be taken using both direct viewfinder and client viewfinder. </p> <ul><li id="GUID-1B34E0C2-D3E2-563D-8230-CB9283CB96CF"><p>If client snapshot is required, use <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita#GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4/GUID-7DB06650-199E-3B00-A19A-1B48D671E46E"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraSnapshot</apiname></xref>. Client needs to call <xref href="GUID-4F2BB371-3FE1-3FC5-800B-67B6472FE0E4.dita#GUID-4F2BB371-3FE1-3FC5-800B-67B6472FE0E4/GUID-259B5050-C042-39B2-986C-3D8142303CFC"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraImageCapture::GetSnapshotHandleL()</apiname></xref> or <xref href="GUID-D74635DE-C5D8-3A9A-ABDD-8324D8EFF460.dita#GUID-D74635DE-C5D8-3A9A-ABDD-8324D8EFF460/GUID-3A04E9A5-E00C-3CF6-881B-735104EAB659"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraVideoCaptureControl::GetSnapshotHandleL()</apiname></xref> depending on the requirement. </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-6595B3C1-344E-37D0-9DDF-3EB667D5F679.dita"><apiname>MImplemetationFactory</apiname></xref> provides handles to concrete implementation for <xref href="GUID-CBB8D575-A12F-32C4-BC19-55AEB51D2601.dita"><apiname>MCameraSnapshot</apiname></xref> or <xref href="GUID-A048086C-0481-3E68-9B96-70943917B3FB.dita"><apiname>MCameraSnapshot2</apiname></xref> derived class. Every CCameraSnapshot object gets tied to the specific client viewfinder handle through <xref href="GUID-A048086C-0481-3E68-9B96-70943917B3FB.dita#GUID-A048086C-0481-3E68-9B96-70943917B3FB/GUID-E9CAF87C-BD72-3242-94BE-1F5B8B116C10"><apiname>MCameraSnapshot2::SetClientViewFinderId()</apiname></xref>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-6AE01790-A6C3-5A8D-A3B0-CA87C7521E43"><p>If direct snapshot is required, use <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita#GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4/GUID-880B1BDF-C42F-3190-81C2-B2DD555AC8FE"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraDirectSnapshot</apiname></xref>. Client needs to call <xref href="GUID-A1E81FF5-3F58-3D41-8FE2-9D6D21004B08.dita#GUID-A1E81FF5-3F58-3D41-8FE2-9D6D21004B08/GUID-F1319DF8-B489-33CB-9D1A-FE182FF92F4B"><apiname>CCameraV2DirectViewFinder::GetDirectSnapshotHandleL()</apiname></xref>. Concrete implementation of <xref href="GUID-4C71BD28-FCB9-33CE-8FAA-A9525350E0E1.dita"><apiname>MCameraV2DirectViewFinder</apiname></xref> object provides the handle to the concrete implementation for the <xref href="GUID-E75CBA2D-933F-33CF-9F66-0868D6BC0649.dita"><apiname>MCameraDirectSnapshot</apiname></xref> object. Reference to the <xref href="GUID-A1E81FF5-3F58-3D41-8FE2-9D6D21004B08.dita"><apiname>CCameraV2DirectViewFinder</apiname></xref> object is passed to the concrete implementation for <xref href="GUID-E75CBA2D-933F-33CF-9F66-0868D6BC0649.dita"><apiname>MCameraDirectSnapshot</apiname></xref> derived object. </p> </li> </ul> <p><b>Setup and Configuration Requirements</b> </p> <p>To need to use Snapshot you need to use <xref href="GUID-BAFF01BC-405C-37B2-8AC3-F96CF756C300.dita"><apiname>McameraObserver2</apiname></xref> interface. </p> <ol id="GUID-8F888A99-B530-5472-95A5-867CDC19BAF6"><li id="GUID-FC000C0B-3EF3-5E5F-8FB2-7398BB25941F"><p>You need to create instance of this class from image capture or video capture control class object. This allows better handling of snapshot features by tying it closely to the given image or video capture object. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-146B0BF1-BD4C-5C8C-9815-B9C33E4BE27D"><p>You need to call this class when the camera is ready and the image is captured or the buffer of captured video data is ready. </p> </li> </ol> <p> <b>Note</b>: You should not create the instance of this class directly. </p> </section> <section id="GUID-CD46D92A-C488-56E9-80D8-D7832DC603DF"><title> Using Snapshot </title> <p>You can perform the following tasks using the <xref href="GUID-BBE1DA21-0A0F-37F2-BA43-DE259EB4577C.dita"><apiname>CcameraSnapshot</apiname></xref> interface. </p> <ul><li id="GUID-B9763C6C-A232-574D-AB96-71C945B5741E"><p>Getting Supported formats: Get the list of supported formats using <xref href="GUID-7DB06650-199E-3B00-A19A-1B48D671E46E.dita#GUID-7DB06650-199E-3B00-A19A-1B48D671E46E/GUID-182AFDC3-E938-3F2D-8243-FADD8907B467"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraSnapshot::SupportedFormats()</apiname></xref>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-9030BCFF-4EB9-5655-A565-7DC4F6A961D1"><p>Preparing Snapshot: Prepare snapshot data using <xref href="GUID-9749B0DF-B887-3798-9185-481DF8E2F7C2.dita#GUID-9749B0DF-B887-3798-9185-481DF8E2F7C2/GUID-173798C2-DB67-3704-A2BF-4EFB3941FB64"><apiname>CCameraSnapshot::PrepareSnapshotL()</apiname></xref>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-726EBC74-7ADC-5E3E-AF51-7F25AA8C6032"><p>Retrieving Snapshot status: Retrieve snapshot status using <xref href="GUID-7DB06650-199E-3B00-A19A-1B48D671E46E.dita#GUID-7DB06650-199E-3B00-A19A-1B48D671E46E/GUID-B9F57324-48A3-3FC8-BBE5-ADA6B4EEEE4C"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraSnapshot::GetSnapshotStatusL()</apiname></xref>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-5861B9A3-05B3-5B11-82B4-5D65F44E8252"><p>Enabling Snapshot: Enable snapshot using <xref href="GUID-7DB06650-199E-3B00-A19A-1B48D671E46E.dita#GUID-7DB06650-199E-3B00-A19A-1B48D671E46E/GUID-5B921018-B528-38FC-AEB4-9D2CE82D458E"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraSnapshot::EnableSnapshotL()</apiname></xref>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-613207D5-0E58-51CC-A588-62E1AB0801C4"><p>Disabling Snapshot: Disable snapshot using <xref href="GUID-7DB06650-199E-3B00-A19A-1B48D671E46E.dita#GUID-7DB06650-199E-3B00-A19A-1B48D671E46E/GUID-5A72DB18-5597-39B2-BE83-FE64476038CC"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraSnapshot::DisableSnapshotL()</apiname></xref>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-2D0C714B-67F9-560A-B48D-6835FE6FE700"><p>Getting Snapshot Data: Get the snapshot data using <xref href="GUID-7DB06650-199E-3B00-A19A-1B48D671E46E.dita#GUID-7DB06650-199E-3B00-A19A-1B48D671E46E/GUID-FD954C76-308F-3405-A553-6D47D9C67D4D"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraSnapshot::SnapshotDataL()</apiname></xref>. </p> </li> </ul> <p>You can also perform the above tasks using <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita#GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4/GUID-880B1BDF-C42F-3190-81C2-B2DD555AC8FE"><apiname>CCamera::CCameraDirectSnapshot</apiname></xref> interface. Licensees can implement extra features on snapshot using <xref href="GUID-A048086C-0481-3E68-9B96-70943917B3FB.dita"><apiname>MCameraSnapshot2</apiname></xref> interface. </p> <p><b>Types of Snapshot</b> </p> <ul><li id="GUID-1B1BA782-ADDB-5BEA-85CD-CA0EE19C1744"><p>Client snapshot for videos </p> </li> <li id="GUID-811B1DBE-CB5B-5EC3-99C3-FE6403ABF9B6"><p>Client snapshot for still images </p> </li> <li id="GUID-D01EBBED-BB27-5559-8CB3-45CA9BAC0BD7"><p>Direct snapshot for still images </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>See also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-0B24B36D-F4C5-508A-A65B-18E4E4C45C37.dita">Overview</xref> of Camera SnapShot </p> <p><xref href="GUID-1C0707F8-9E2A-58C6-997B-23B57C7EFA93.dita">Working with Snapshots</xref> </p> </section> </conbody></concept>