<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="GUID-D9D20EE0-AC86-512A-91C0-EA0ACF3912A7" xml:lang="en"><title>Package-Header</title><abstract><p>The Package-Header includes package names for each of the supported
languages, a unique identifier of the package, major version, minor version,
build number of the package and package options. </p></abstract><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><refbody>
<refsyn id="GUID-4B9A1617-AAAA-4F8F-BB42-EA31098D6F60"><title>Syntax</title> <codeblock id="GUID-927D44CD-DB14-53E0-8734-873811937B97" xml:space="preserve">#{"Package name for language 1", ...}, (package-uid), major, minor, build-number[, package-options, ...]</codeblock> <p>For example: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-149C7501-7316-54F6-BEC2-B0A741755972" xml:space="preserve">#{"MyApp-EN", "MyApp-FR", "MyApp-Zulu"}, (0x1000001F), 1, 2, 3, TYPE=SA
 </codeblock> <ul>
<li id="GUID-903FAC8D-2C01-504F-B52C-7CAE67DFBA11"><p> <b>Package Name</b>:
Identifies the package in the installation dialogs and in the list of installed
packages. The package name is language-dependent. The number of package names
must equal the number of languages specified in the languages line and must
be in the same order. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A9A4ECAA-590F-57ED-99AF-CA99E2A9BE53"><p> <b>Package UID</b>:
Identifies the package when installing, upgrading and removing the package.
All package files require a UID. </p> <p>The UID, known as the package UID
or pUID specified in the package header of an application (SISAPP) uniquely
identifies the package. The installation fails if another installed package
has the same pUID, unless the second package is a patch or an upgrade. The
package creator is responsible for ensuring that the pUID is correctly allocated
to ensure uniqueness. It can have the same value as the SID of an executable
installed by the package. </p> <p>Package UIDs and SIDs are allocated through <xref href="https://www.symbiansigned.com" scope="external">https://www.symbiansigned.com</xref>. </p> <p>If
the pUID is in the protected range, (less than 0x80000000), or if the package
is installing an EXE whose SID is in the protected range, the package must
be trusted. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F012A4EF-7BCA-5D3F-8E59-AEECFE4CF171"><p> <b>Major, Minor versions</b>:
Specifies the major and minor version numbers of the package and are required
for version control. For example, <codeph>AppName 3.1</codeph> specifies major
build 3, and minor build 1. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8762C9E4-CF64-538F-82C3-A8E7B10C6AEC"><p> <b>Build Number</b>:
Specifies the build number of the application. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A16794C7-9FA9-5772-86D6-AC9A6120B1CD"><p> <b>Package-Options</b>:
Specifies the various options that can be provided within package header.
See the <xref href="GUID-D9D20EE0-AC86-512A-91C0-EA0ACF3912A7.dita#GUID-D9D20EE0-AC86-512A-91C0-EA0ACF3912A7/GUID-3F2B03BC-69F1-5498-8684-F6855D7E0F85">Package-Options</xref> section
for details. </p> </li>
</ul> <p id="GUID-3F2B03BC-69F1-5498-8684-F6855D7E0F85"><b>Package-Options</b> </p> <p>The
following table lists the <codeph>Package-Options</codeph> that can be used: </p> <table id="GUID-5A361C0B-BF5C-50A3-AAA6-829F83D7134E">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Abbreviation</entry>
<entry>Name</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p> <codeph>TYPE=Package-Type</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the <xref href="GUID-D9D20EE0-AC86-512A-91C0-EA0ACF3912A7.dita#GUID-D9D20EE0-AC86-512A-91C0-EA0ACF3912A7/GUID-3C2E7248-23BD-5A9C-BC4F-2F86B1A94002">Package-Type</xref> that
identifies the purpose of the package. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>SH</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>SHUTDOWNAPPS</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Shuts down all applications on the device. </p> <p>Software installer
terminates running applications on the device as needed during the installation
process, so this flag is deprecated. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>NC</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>NOCOMPRESS</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Files are not compressed within the SIS file. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p id="GUID-3C2E7248-23BD-5A9C-BC4F-2F86B1A94002"><b>Package-Type</b> </p> <p>The
following table lists the <codeph>Package-Type</codeph> that can be used within <codeph>Package-Options</codeph>: </p> <table id="GUID-B63C3151-7392-5136-9D87-E12C1BE6F991">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Abbreviation</entry>
<entry>Name</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>SA</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>SISAPP</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the package that contains an application. This is the
default type. For details on upgrading applications, see <xref href="GUID-7FD72D9F-D65E-5248-A296-F2196F1DF5CF.dita">Upgrade
Types</xref>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>SP</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>SISPATCH</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies a package that patches an existing component. It can be
uninstalled separately from the package it patches. For more details, see <xref href="GUID-7FD72D9F-D65E-5248-A296-F2196F1DF5CF.dita">Upgrade Types</xref>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>PU</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>PARTIALUPGRADE</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies a package that partially upgrades an existing component.
This is a variation of <codeph>SA</codeph> in that files which are present
in the original package but not specified in the <codeph>PU</codeph> package
are not removed. For more details, see <xref href="GUID-7FD72D9F-D65E-5248-A296-F2196F1DF5CF.dita">Upgrade
Types</xref>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>PA</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>PIAPP</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specify this type to create applications that are preinstalled
on media cards. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>PP</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>PIPATCH</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specify this type to create patches that are preinstalled on media
cards.</p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>The following table explains the <codeph>RU</codeph> flag: </p> <table id="GUID-82539F7C-94B5-5D0D-A6CF-61253B5DCF8B">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Abbreviation</entry>
<entry>Name</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>RU</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <codeph>ROMUPGRADE</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This flag is required with the <codeph>SA</codeph> package type
to carry out a full upgrade of an application in ROM. For details on using
the RU flag for an upgrade of type SA, see <xref href="GUID-7FD72D9F-D65E-5248-A296-F2196F1DF5CF.dita">Upgrade
Types</xref>. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p><b>Notes</b>:</p><ul>
<li><p> All numbers can be hexadecimal. </p></li>
<li><p>These options are mutually exclusive.</p></li>
</ul> </refsyn>
</refbody></reference>