<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-C4389D60-2A8D-532D-9D92-E57B0CCD14CF" xml:lang="en"><title>Unified
Keystore Overview</title><shortdesc>The Unified Keystore provides a unified view of all the keystores
in a device.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section><title>Introduction</title> <p>The Unified Keystore provides an interface
to access keys in various keystore implementations in the device. Symbian
provides a default keystore implementation. Device creators may include Symbian's
keystore implementation in a device and may add their own keystores. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-9DD8C1BF-A106-5E77-88A3-43A94AB68335"><title>Keystore functionality</title> <p>The
Unified Keystore API provides the following functionality: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-3447C46E-8AD1-577F-9B92-808FD92C91DA"><p>Generate keys </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-FF0A58FD-9210-52CA-A10F-EBB12AF559E0"><p>List Keystores </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2DC65FE5-A070-518B-BDA5-481E40D7351D"><p>Import keys </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DC9B0CC5-2219-5913-B93A-5443E1F8FE4E"><p>Export keys </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-BECC7117-3B1E-574C-ADE1-D03C4FABB2E3"><p>List keys </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-BC1658CB-043E-54AB-BD74-202E67B65D05"><p>Delete keys </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-3B6A82DD-523F-500E-8C52-731EF0AEC278"><p>Sign keys </p> </li>
</ul> <p>These tasks are performed differently depending on the keystore version
being used. </p> <p>The Symbian keystore supports access control to the keystore
using application UIDs. There are two modes of access:</p><ul>
<li><p>Owner: As key owners, applications can create, delete and manage keys. </p></li>
<li><p>User: As key users, application can view and retrieve keys but cannot
perform any modification operations.</p></li>
</ul> <p> <b>Notes:</b>  </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-B59BCD78-E184-534A-AB28-776E6257F6FF"><p>For details on the Unified
Keystore functionality, refer to the <xref href="GUID-6C6AED40-D5B3-5613-8F92-FD2CB711AE54.dita">Unified
Keystore Tutorials</xref>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-91CE40A2-D00E-5A31-9EAD-ABF87585AFAE"><p>The <xref href="GUID-818689D6-EB99-382E-A435-D9C6C5D464DE.dita"><apiname>CUnifiedKeyStore</apiname></xref> class
provides functions for performing the various keystore operations. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-6C6AED40-D5B3-5613-8F92-FD2CB711AE54.dita"><linktext>Unified Keystore
Tutorials</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-C7150120-74C2-5FF1-99F0-0A267393E342.dita"><linktext>Crypto Token
Framework Overview</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>