<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-402C3EE7-8852-49B6-BE62-8588753FAC8F" xml:lang="en"><title>Constructing
the toolbar</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section><p>Construct the toolbar either for your entire application or for
an application view. If a view has no toolbar specified, the application specific
toolbar is used for the view.</p>        <p> The UI framework creates the
toolbar automatically during application initialization when it is properly
defined in the resource files. After the toolbar has been created, you can
receive a pointer to it using <codeph>CAknAppUi</codeph>, <codeph>CEikAppUiFactory</codeph> or <codeph>CAknView</codeph> methods.
The method to use depends on whether the application specific or view specific
toolbar pointer should be received. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-BC3207BF-9E9F-4BA0-8F01-B72228110A61.dita">Accessing
the toolbar from applications or application views</xref>.</p><p>The toolbar
destruction is also handled by the framework when the application execution
ends. </p><p>The <codeph>EIK_APP_INFO</codeph> structure’s <codeph>custom_app_info_extension</codeph> refers
to the <codeph>EIK_APP_INFO_EXT</codeph> element. The element contains links
to the resource structure of the toolbar. The contents of the application-specific
toolbar can be defined in the <codeph>AVKON_TOOLBAR</codeph> resource definition.
The toolbar can also be specified to be view-specific by linking to its resource
structure from the <codeph>AVKON_VIEW</codeph> resource structure. If a view
has no toolbar specified, the application-specific toolbar is used for the
view.</p><p>Use the <codeph>AVKON_TOOLBAR</codeph> resource definition to
define the toolbar contents. </p><p>If the toolbar is application specific,
refer to the toolbar definition from the <codeph>EIK_APP_INFO_EXT</codeph> resource
structure. In case of a view specific toolbar, refer to the toolbar definition
from the <codeph>AVKON_VIEW</codeph> structure.</p>           <p>The <codeph>AVKON_TOOLBAR</codeph> resource
definition contains a list of toolbar items. Each item is defined as <codeph>TBAR_CTRL</codeph> structure.</p> 
         <p>The example below shows how to define an application toolbar in
resources.</p>           <codeblock xml:space="preserve">RESOURCE EIK_APP_INFO
    {
    cba = r_softkeys_options_next;
    menubar = r_myapp_menubar;
    custom_app_info_extension = r_myapp_info_extension;
    }

RESOURCE EIK_APP_INFO_EXT r_myapp_info_extension
    {
    popup_toolbar = r_myapp_fixed_toolbar;
    }</codeblock><p>The example below shows how to define a toolbar for an
application view in resources.</p>           <codeblock xml:space="preserve">RESOURCE AVKON_VIEW r_myapp_fixed_view
    {
    menubar = r_myapp_menubar;
    toolbar = r_myapp_fixed_toolbar;
    cba = r_softkeys_options_next;
    }</codeblock><p>Use the <codeph>TBAR_CTRL</codeph> resource definition
to define toolbar controls. You can also <xref href="GUID-58318BAB-2EC4-4C9E-A7CA-580E701EE54F.dita">add
controls later dynamically</xref> in your application code. </p> <p>The example
below shows how to define a fixed toolbar with three buttons in resources.</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">RESOURCE AVKON_TOOLBAR r_myapp_fixed_toolbar
    {
    flags = KAknToolbarFixed;
    items =
        {
        TBAR_CTRL
            {
            type = EAknCtButton;
            id = ECmdFirst;
            control = AVKON_BUTTON
                {
                flags = 0;
                states =
                    {
                    AVKON_BUTTON_STATE
                        {
                        txt = "First";
                        helptxt = "First help";
                        }  
                    };
                };
            },
        TBAR_CTRL
            {
            type = EAknCtButton;
            id = ECmdSecond;
            control = AVKON_BUTTON
                {
                flags = 0;
                states =
                    {
                    AVKON_BUTTON_STATE
                        {
                        txt = "Second";
                        helptxt = "Second help";
                        }  
                    };
                };
            },
        TBAR_CTRL
            {
            type = EAknCtButton;
            id = ECmdThird;
            control = AVKON_BUTTON
                {
                flags = 0;
                states =
                    {
                    AVKON_BUTTON_STATE
                        {
                        txt = "Third";
                        helptxt = "Third help";
                        }  
                    };
                };
            }
        };
    }
</codeblock><p>The example below shows how to define a floating toolbar with
items to be added dynamically at runtime.</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">RESOURCE AVKON_TOOLBAR r_myapp_floating_toolbar
    {
    flags = KAknToolbarWithoutCba;
    items =
        {
        // Created dynamically
        };
    }
</codeblock></section>
</conbody></concept>