<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-65F8675F-FF08-5707-BA5B-BF3B4B779393" xml:lang="en"><title>Handling
SDP results</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Clients that make service and attribute queries through <xref href="GUID-AD76DB7F-CD45-3903-A07A-E94BE583CDB0.dita"><apiname>CSdpAgent</apiname></xref> must
implement the <xref href="GUID-AD76DB7F-CD45-3903-A07A-E94BE583CDB0.dita"><apiname>MSdpAgentNotifier</apiname></xref> interface
to handle the responses. </p>
<section><title>How to create an object to handle inquiry results</title> <p>There
are two kinds of results that require handling, they are: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-5D797F13-A380-5286-905F-9DCB374224B7"><p>Service Search Results,
and </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-49BAAE50-2EB9-5A64-910A-5C95CED036DE"><p>Attribute Read Results </p> </li>
</ul> <p>We will examine a simple handling example for both kinds below. </p><p>Note: 
Queries are asynchronous. </p> </section>
<section><title>Handling service search results</title> <p>When a service
search request completes, it calls the <xref href="GUID-AD76DB7F-CD45-3903-A07A-E94BE583CDB0.dita"><apiname>NextRecordRequestComplete()</apiname></xref>: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-00FBBFCE-2C58-5D79-9C24-D0BC796BE1D3" xml:space="preserve">virtual void NextRecordRequestComplete(TInt aError, TSdpServRecordHandle aHandle, TInt aTotalRecordsCount)</codeblock> <p> <codeph>aHandle</codeph> gives the service record handle of the matching
service, and can be used in a subsequent attribute query. <codeph>aTotalRecordsCount</codeph> gives
the total number of matching records. </p> </section>
<section><title>Handling attribute read results</title> <p>When an attribute
request completes, each single attribute is returned with its attribute ID
using <xref href="GUID-AD76DB7F-CD45-3903-A07A-E94BE583CDB0.dita"><apiname>AttributeRequestResult()</apiname></xref>. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-B13E900D-9D1A-5FA4-9063-FA830B86218E" xml:space="preserve">virtual void AttributeRequestResult(TSdpServRecordHandle aHandle, TSdpAttributeID aAttrID, CSdpAttrValue* aAttrValue)</codeblock> <p>The ID of the attribute is given in <codeph>aAttrID</codeph>, and the
attribute value itself in <codeph>aAttrValue</codeph>. You can find the type
of the attribute through <codeph>aAttrValue-&gt;Type()</codeph>, cast <codeph>aAttrValue</codeph> on
this base to the correct subclass of <xref href="GUID-AD76DB7F-CD45-3903-A07A-E94BE583CDB0.dita"><apiname>CSdpAttrValue</apiname></xref>:
for example, if the type is <xref href="GUID-AD76DB7F-CD45-3903-A07A-E94BE583CDB0.dita"><apiname>ETypeBoolean</apiname></xref>,
you can cast <codeph>aAttrValue</codeph> to a <xref href="GUID-AD76DB7F-CD45-3903-A07A-E94BE583CDB0.dita"><apiname>CSdpAttrValueBoolean</apiname></xref>. </p> <p>When
there are no more attributes to be returned, <xref href="GUID-AD76DB7F-CD45-3903-A07A-E94BE583CDB0.dita"><apiname>AttributeRequestComplete()</apiname></xref> is
called. </p> </section>
<section><title>Where Next?</title> <p>The complete set of Service Discovery
Agent tutorials are shown below: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-7461DF52-06B4-55BE-B176-7F1F88851B7C"><p> <xref href="GUID-275D7892-EEBD-5DBD-A9D7-F6A715B79659.dita">Querying
the SDP database</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2C509727-D129-5DC6-8761-1975151FBA6C"><p> <xref href="GUID-1EA7B3A5-7A94-5E8F-A0A8-9CA417E14032.dita">Reading
remote SDP service attributes</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-93251739-F226-5398-9F7B-A3BC599AB40F"><p> <b>Handling SDP query
results</b> - This document </p> </li>
</ul> <p>Also refer to the <xref href="GUID-2F1C6B4C-2C23-5A35-A0D2-223EC6238F7D.dita">Bluetooth
Service Discovery Agent Overview</xref> and the <xref href="GUID-8451102A-8E68-5C86-9E40-D53183E32261.dita">Bluetooth
SDP Overview</xref> for additional background information. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>