<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-FFD56DA3-9301-5679-9209-A70CE63A34A2"><title>How to initialise LINK and LLINK RESOURCE members</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>A <codeph>LINK</codeph> or <codeph>LLINK</codeph> member must be initialised with a <varname>resource-identifier</varname>. This resource identifier may be in the form of a resource name or a number. </p> <ul><li id="GUID-CCE4B830-70DA-5875-B791-E3CB9FFA4F7E"><p>To specify a resource in the same file, use the resource name in <i>lower case</i>.</p> <p>It is not necessary for the resource to be defined at the time the statement is processed, but an error will result if the resource is not defined in the entire file. When declared in lower case any <codeph>NAME</codeph> specified in the file will be added onto the resource id.</p> </li> <li id="GUID-3968866A-565F-5FC3-9B14-0333EAACC665"><p>To specify a resource in a different file, use the resource name in <i>upper case</i>.</p> <p>To reference it you must <codeph>#include</codeph> the relevant header file containing the resource. All resource names are turned into upper case when their <codeph>#define</codeph> s are generated in the header file — this is how the resource compiler recognises that it must look for the resource in another file. If this resource does not exist in any <codeph>#include</codeph> d file then an error is generated.</p> </li> <li id="GUID-E1F1E24C-40FA-5574-8D54-DA8D512C6E5B"><p>The resource identifier may also be specified as a number: in this case it is the resource id (including <codeph>NAME</codeph>).</p> <p>If no such resource id exists either in the file or any <codeph>#include</codeph> d header files, no error is generated by the compiler. The programmer must therefore ensure that the id is a valid reference.</p> </li> </ul> <p>See <xref href="GUID-F9605837-2209-500D-AB62-48A433489C5E.dita">Resource file definition</xref> for information on how resource ids are generated. See also <xref href="GUID-AECDAEBF-777A-579B-92F8-560FD7FF86E7.dita">NAME statement</xref> and related statements.</p> </conbody></concept>