<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-E6AD5C21-493F-59ED-9617-B348013BDCE5"><title>System Sounds</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>System Sounds provides a simple and a consistent way for applications to produce sounds for common events such as messages and errors. </p> <p>Sounds are specified logically, so that the actual corresponding physical sounds produced can vary with device configuration. Sounds can be file-based (for example, WAV), tones, or a fixed-tone sequences. </p> <p>System Sounds is a layer over the Media Server, which handles playing the audio. </p> <p>It has three key concepts - logical sound, sound player and system sound information. </p> <section><title>Logical sound</title> <p>A sound to play is specified logically using two UIDs. The first UID specifies the category of the sound, such as rings, alarms, errors and messages. The second UID is optional and it specifies an instance of that category, such as new SMS arrived, or battery low. </p> <p>The pair of UIDs is encapsulated in <xref href="GUID-7E952D16-3F1D-3CDD-9A25-0EBF3BBB4455.dita"><apiname>TBaSystemSoundType</apiname></xref>. </p> </section> <section><title>Sound player</title> <p>The sound player plays the sound specified by <xref href="GUID-7E952D16-3F1D-3CDD-9A25-0EBF3BBB4455.dita"><apiname>TBaSystemSoundType</apiname></xref>. The caller can request the sound to be repeated, and the time between repeats. If the exact sound cannot be found on a particular device, a match only by category (first UID) is used. A default sound is used if no match is found. </p> <p>The sound player class is <xref href="GUID-DF7CBE32-6D4E-3C15-982F-D5C2E0EDE380.dita"><apiname>CoeSoundPlayer</apiname></xref>. </p> </section> <section><title>System sound information</title> <p>The characteristics of a physical sound that corresponds to a logical sound are encapsulated in a <xref href="GUID-B53E2875-D83A-38E2-B2F4-BC973313C8FF.dita"><apiname>TBaSystemSoundInfo</apiname></xref>. </p> <p>You can get and set the physical sound for a logical sound through <xref href="GUID-D426C4BB-F317-3F22-AC37-E741FCB0B269.dita"><apiname>BaSystemSound</apiname></xref>. </p> </section> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-DDE1A8A9-1D67-53BF-8A65-340F139AD4AB.dita"><linktext>Using Multimedia Framework
                Client</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>