<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-DC4BF172-CDD3-5351-BBA1-550DEC1706BD"><title>Automatic Speech Recognition Custom Commands Overview </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This document provides an overview of ASR Custom Commands. </p> <section><title>Purpose</title> <p>This library provides custom commands for the ASR Client Utility. </p> <p><b>ASR Custom Commands Library Details</b> </p> <p>The DLL that provides the functionality and the library to which your code must link is identified below. </p> <table id="GUID-9ADED590-BE42-526D-99B7-DACB7682843C"><tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><thead><row><entry>DLL</entry> <entry>LIB</entry> <entry>Short Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <b>speechrecognitioncustomcommands.dll</b>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <b>speechrecognitioncustomcommands.lib</b>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>These files are used for implementing ASR Custom Commands. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> <section><title>Architectural Relationship</title> <p>ASR Custom Commands is an extension of the MMF Controller framework that supports speech recognition. </p> </section> <section><title>Description</title> <p>The ASR Custom Commands extend the basic functionality of the ASR Client Utility. The <xref href="GUID-8BDEBC3E-1B7E-3951-99BA-D6C6F9F53AC0.dita"><apiname>CSpeechRecognitionCustomCommands</apiname></xref> class communicates with the controller plugin via the <xref href="GUID-9DEDFB0F-C963-3FB7-9237-DDDB276C8841.dita#GUID-9DEDFB0F-C963-3FB7-9237-DDDB276C8841/GUID-E0CBE252-799E-3972-8C14-B1C6E135C458"><apiname>RMMFController::CustomCommandSync()</apiname></xref> function. </p> <p>ASR Custom Commands follows the standard custom commands pattern for MMF. </p> </section> <section><title>Key ASR Custom Commands Classes</title> <p>The speech recognition functionality provided by the ASR Custom Commands is contained within the following key classes: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-E4AEEC52-8305-5A2F-8A36-F7FA9E90C38E"><p> <xref href="GUID-397E00DC-879F-3DFB-9409-61CFC27433F9.dita"><apiname>RSpeechRecognitionCustomCommands</apiname></xref> - ASR Custom Commands. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-E4D48DEE-56CC-5D5B-980F-7D78A7147334"><p> <xref href="GUID-16CBFE31-B6F3-3263-A4F8-4660E9F87EA9.dita"><apiname>CSpeechRecognitionCustomCommandParser</apiname></xref> - ASR Custom Commands Parser. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-10DF2B9E-6ADA-50AF-9FCB-983B227D1F15"><p> <xref href="GUID-0B3DE41D-9861-30DC-B29D-A049C49ADF7C.dita"><apiname>MSpeechRecognitionCustomCommandImplementor</apiname></xref> - ASR Custom Commands Implementor. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>Using ASR Custom Commands</title> <p>Clients can use the ASR Custom Commands to: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-51B3C326-9F69-5178-99A2-384AEEACA4D5"><p>Create a new grammar. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-D16A04DC-8AA7-5802-A308-BB10DC3FED02"><p>Create a new lexicon. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-5C71CE9D-542C-5B7C-B28B-378F1E93188B"><p>Add a new entry into the lexicon. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-1D8827F5-02EC-5AA1-A6A6-1DEE813DD04E"><p>Add a new rule into the grammar. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-357F2222-55AF-5737-AA60-4CB9B552BA08"><p>Record user utterance. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-1A6137E9-BED2-5020-9D30-EC3243F0576E"><p>Playback user utterance. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-32603D53-1AB3-5D24-8A25-08C9B2E36CA6"><p>Save current changes into permanent storage. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>See Also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-B454C08F-0531-5789-ABFA-171D3C2319D9.dita"> Automatic Speech Recognition Client Utility Overview</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-F684F363-B361-5868-9195-41305428AB2D.dita">Automatic Speech Recognition Data Handling Overview</xref>  </p> <p> </p> </section> </conbody></concept>