<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-50F216D0-242A-5796-BDCC-7AAB28535458" xml:lang="en"><title>Features
command syntax</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section><title>Purpose</title><p>The <codeph>features</codeph> tool processes
the Feature Database Manager (xml file) and generates the header file, feature
choices obey file and/or <filepath>features.dat</filepath> file. The header
file contains feature UIDs. The feature choices obey file is used to create
different ROM images. The <filepath>features.dat</filepath> file which is
a binary file, is used as a default configuration file by the Symbian emulator.
The <codeph>features</codeph> tool accepts both feature manager and feature
registry database as input, and for the feature registry database, it generates
only <filepath>features.dat</filepath>. </p> </section>
<section><title>Syntax</title><codeblock xml:space="preserve">features [options] &lt;xml database  file&gt; [&lt;xml database file1&gt; &lt;xml database file2&gt;...]</codeblock><p>The following options can be used: </p><table id="GUID-4A4B3EE7-8900-404E-8404-955DB9031706">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Options</b></entry>
<entry><b>Description</b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>-r[=&lt;destination path&gt;]</codeph> or <codeph>--hdrfile[=&lt;destination
path&gt;]</codeph></entry>
<entry>Creates a header file in <codeph>&lt;destination path&gt;</codeph> or
in the default path <filepath>\epoc32\include</filepath>, if the destination
path is not specified. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>-i[=&lt;destination path&gt;]</codeph> or <codeph>--ibyfile[=&lt;destination
path&gt; </codeph></entry>
<entry>Creates an IBY file in <codeph>&lt;destination path&gt;</codeph> or in
the default path <filepath>\epoc32\rom\include\</filepath>, if the destination
path is not specified. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>-d[=&lt;destination path&gt;]</codeph> or <codeph>--datfile[=&lt;destination
path&gt;]</codeph></entry>
<entry>Creates <filepath>features.dat</filepath> file in <codeph>&lt;destination
path&gt;</codeph> or in the current directory, if the destination path is not
specified. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>-c[=&lt;destination path&gt;]</codeph> or <codeph>--convert[=&lt;destination
path&gt;]</codeph></entry>
<entry>Converts the given feature registry database into a feature manager
database (for example, <filepath>featureregistryname_converted.xml</filepath>)
in <codeph>&lt;destination path&gt;</codeph> or in the current directory, if
the destination path is not specified. <note>The converted file is named as <filepath>featureregistryname_converted.xml</filepath> by
default. See <b>Conversion of feature registry DB to feature manager DB</b>.</note> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>-s</codeph> or <codeph>--strict</codeph></entry>
<entry>Enables strict mode.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>-v</codeph> or<codeph> --verbose</codeph> </entry>
<entry>Enables verbose mode.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>-h</codeph> or <codeph>--help</codeph> </entry>
<entry>Displays help.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>--version</codeph> </entry>
<entry>Displays the version of the tool.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><p>The features tool also allows you to specify a combination of options
(for example, <codeph>features -rcv</codeph>).   </p><p><codeph>&lt;xml database
file&gt;</codeph> can be either a Feature Registry database (<filepath>featureUIDs.xml</filepath>)
or a Feature Manager database (<filepath>featuredatabase.xml</filepath>) </p></section>
</conbody></concept>