<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
	Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->  <!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd"><concept id="GUID-E764B4A3-4CEE-461D-B555-C8969A62130A" xml:lang="en"><title>Status
pane items</title><prolog><metadata><keywords></keywords></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>A tap on: </p>
<ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-76FD2A71-E8A3-4C82-9704-3F7F6AD4DFD8.dita">Navi pane</xref>:
common items (such as tabs) should perform a function that is obvious and
clear. Common AVKON interaction does not change. On the whole, however, in
each application it is up to the given application to assign an appropriate
function to its Navi pane items. It is perfectly acceptable also not to assign
any function where appropriate.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-314B1556-5CB5-4BCC-93C0-B22DB849D2D5.dita">Universal indicator
pane</xref>: opens a pop-up with more information on <xref href="GUID-771AF721-E2D7-41C8-BF97-5BD30D1A28AD.dita">Status
pane</xref> indicators. It always includes battery and signal indicators and
digital clock. The user can tap any of those for more information. For each
visible universal indicator there is one row reserved in the pop-up for showing
the icon and a description text. Thus the user can view what indicator is
in question. The description text may also inform about the current status
and/or it may be a link to a view in corresponding application e.g. by tapping
text "3 new messages" opens the relevant view from the messaging application,
and tapping "Bluetooth active" switches view to the Bluetooth settings. Content
of the row is determined by the application originating the indicator. </p></li>
<li><p>Clock in Idle opens the Clock application.</p></li>
</ul>
<section><title>Using status pane items
in C++ applications</title><p>The API to use for the status pane is the Status
pane API. For implementation information, see Using
the status pane API.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>