<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-7BFEEDF7-3DB8-42FF-9D7A-F98E536F7686" xml:lang="en"><title>Sensor
interaction</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-27524BA1-FE0E-4906-8A73-C2F8B4B5BC6C"> <p>Devices based
on the Symbian platform are supporting extendable Sensor framework.
The supported sensors include accelerometer sensor, which is used for example
for sensing device orientation (landscape/portrait and screen down/screen
up) and tapping (giving the device light taps with your hand).  </p> <p>With
the accelerometer sensor, there are three types of interaction that can be
achieved:</p><ol>
<li id="GUID-E30828C6-4EA8-49B7-BF00-ADC1D132BBFB"><p>Tapping the device by
hand (double tap) to perform a given function in set events. Tapping the device
interaction is not recommended for touch devices: the user may unintentionally
tap the device on the touch area, and trigger controls by mistake.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-5700ECF7-40ED-4ECE-ABB5-3C2E93173871"><p>Changing the device's
orientation from portrait to landscape and back.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-7233626B-2234-44EB-9E64-CB2D787C6CC2"><p>Changing the device
orientation from screen down (for example, on a table) to screen up and back
to perform a given function in set events (for example, silencing an incoming
call).</p></li>
</ol><p>In effect, the system is capable of sensing any of these interaction
methods in the events where sensors can be used. </p><p>The supported sensor
interactions are configurable per device. Also, the user can be given the
option to set which one the user would like to use. For example, it is possible
to set methods 1 and 3 (double tap by hand and turning the screen downwards)
for the Silence incoming call event. The settings are available in Control
Panel.</p><note>When designing an application which uses the sensors, take
into account that the users may switch the use of sensors and display orientation
control off in the Control Panel. </note><p>A double tap on the device produces
tactile (vibrating) feedback to reinforce and acknowledge that the interaction
has been successful.</p><p>As the Sensor framework is extendable, devices
can have different configurations for sensors.  For instance, some devices
may have a magnetometer sensors included, which could be then used, for example,
as a compass on location-based services.</p><p>For more information, see <xref href="GUID-AE979B97-5610-42F3-99A7-5A3D66D3C2E6.dita">Sensor interaction</xref>.</p> 
   </section>
</conbody></concept>