<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
	Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->  <!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd"><concept id="GUID-CBB00F6A-CBA7-4872-B0A1-A86A863725F5" xml:lang="en"><title>Precompiled
resource values available from the Symbian platform</title><prolog><metadata><keywords></keywords></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The Symbian SDK provides a generated resource header file that contains
symbolic IDs to resources in the Symbian platform for use in your code. The
file with the symbolic IDs is the <parmname>avkon.rsg</parmname> file and
it is in the <parmname>./epoc32/include</parmname> folder. The file contains
commonly used resource structures for your resource file declarations.</p>
<p>A common example is the <parmname>R_AVKON_SOFTKEYS_OPTIONS_EXIT</parmname> symbolic
ID, which maps to the <parmname>CBA</parmname> resource that results in the
softkeys <parmname>Options</parmname> and <parmname>Exit</parmname>. The <parmname>Options</parmname> softkey
is bound to a command that results in the application framework opening the
options menu based on the <parmname>MENU_PANE</parmname> resource. The <parmname>Exit</parmname> softkey
returns the <parmname>EAknSoftkeyExit</parmname> command, which would need
to be handled in the appropriate place for <xref href="GUID-4941C035-C359-4968-9BD5-31F44EE5F810.dita">command
handling</xref> in your application architecture. Note that the Symbian platform
enumerations are in the avkon.hrh file,
which is in the <parmname>/epoc32/include</parmname> folder. In general, you
can map the commands returned from the CBA options by comparing the names
of the symbolic IDs to the symbolic names in the enumerated list.</p>
<p>Other symbolic IDs for other purposes are also available in the <parmname>avkon.rsg</parmname> file.</p>
<p>When the precompiled resources fit the needs of your application, you
can use them to access already existing resource structures. </p>
<p>For examples of how these symbolic IDs are used, see</p>
<ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-A3AF142B-F9DF-43FD-9D3F-788A74D0C575.dita">Using
precompiled CBA button resources</xref></p>
</li>
</ul>
</conbody></concept>