<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-2C68AC8D-6767-5865-B684-CB627C20C6DC"><title>prj_testmmpfiles</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p><codeph>prj_testmmpfiles</codeph> </p> <p><varname>mmp_file_1</varname>  <codeph>
             [tidy] [manual]
     [support]</codeph>  </p> <p><varname>mmp_file_1</varname> <codeph> [tidy] [manual]
     [support]</codeph> </p> <p><codeph>makefile</codeph>  <varname>makefile_1</varname>  <codeph>[tidy] [manual]
     [support]</codeph> </p> <p><codeph>makefile</codeph>  <varname>makefile_n</varname>  <codeph>[tidy] [manual]
     [support]</codeph> </p> <p>In the <codeph>prj_testmmpfiles</codeph> section, list the <filepath>.mmp</filepath> files contained in your component which define test programs. </p> <p>This section for test <filepath>.mmp</filepath> files has the same syntax as the section for standard <filepath>.mmp</filepath> files, except that two extra <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file attributes are provided: the <codeph>manual</codeph> and <codeph>support</codeph> attributes.</p> <p>If any such tests are listed, <codeph>bldmake
     bldfiles</codeph> can create batch files for running the test programs for your component. </p> <ul><li id="GUID-22B228DE-4F18-584E-9132-C796C3954D81"><p>For <i>automatic</i> tests, which can be run without any user-intervention, do not specify either attribute.</p> </li> <li id="GUID-14AE493F-29E3-5C07-A1E5-D77405F91DB2"><p>For <i>manual</i> tests, which require user-input in order for them to complete successfully, specify the <codeph>manual</codeph> attribute.</p> </li> <li id="GUID-8F8031D1-13D4-558E-90C1-23A4585E46B6"><p>Specify the <codeph>support</codeph> attribute if the test should not to be included in a batch file.</p> </li> </ul> <p>For each platform, two batch files are created in the <filepath>bldmake</filepath> output directory for your component:</p> <ul><li id="GUID-6ABD5401-5032-52F6-810B-5FDA013DFB5B"><p> For <i>automatic</i> tests, a batch file called <varname>platform-name</varname> <filepath>.auto.bat</filepath> is created.</p> </li> <li id="GUID-FCADEDCF-0F8A-586C-908E-9F0F04D8BEC4"><p>For <i>manual</i> tests, a batch file called <varname>platform-name</varname> <filepath>.manual.bat</filepath> is created.</p> </li> </ul> <p>Note that, in order for the releasable test to be invoked successfully, the basename of the <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file must be the same as the basename of the releasable specified with the <codeph>target</codeph> statement in the <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file.</p> </conbody></concept>