<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
	Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->  <!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd"><concept id="GUID-114C52FE-C8C5-4418-9C73-CEBB228C7542" xml:lang="en"><title>List
types</title><prolog><metadata><keywords></keywords></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Based on the functionality, the following list categories can be identified:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-6B50C0B9-C3CB-4524-909D-7FD096A3F894.dita">Menu list</xref> </p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-0822B030-E776-4BD5-B9C9-23D3821BCE1F.dita">Selection list</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-ED784025-4E65-4BE9-ADA8-A13427B6EA30.dita">Markable list</xref> </p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-0E695106-4139-4335-A11F-BD04418DD583.dita">Multi-selection
list</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-F149726A-CC79-42A1-8A25-E15AC14ABE9A.dita">Setting list</xref> </p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-16950F22-F5DE-4D52-8414-544105BA3200.dita">Hierarchical
list</xref> </p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-DAF35D49-9630-4186-A350-E8483693D50D.dita">Hierarchical
colum list</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-1AA32C40-CDE0-4627-A634-7C07BB1ED67B.dita">Forms</xref></p></li>
</ul>
<p>Lists belonging to one category may have different graphical appearances.
See <xref href="GUID-CB548959-A1D6-4585-B8E3-B09E37E0CB43.dita">List layouts</xref> for
information about different looking list items.</p>
<p>On the whole, list items and command should not be mixed, but in cases
where some command in a list would significantly boost efficiency and user
experience, it is perfectly acceptable to add one command onto the list. It
is important that there is no more than one command per list, and that the
command is placed as the first item on that list.</p>
<section><title>Using different list
types in C++ applications</title><p>The APIs to use for lists are the Lists
API (for menu, selection, markable, and multi-selection lists) and
the Hierarchical
lists API (for hierarchical and hierarchical column lists). For implementation
information, see Using
the Lists API and Using
the Hierarchical lists API.</p><p>For forms, the API is the Form API. For implementation information, see Using
the Form API</p><p>For list types other than the hierarchical lists,
the flags used to create the different list types in resource files, are described
in Listbox
types in listbox resource definition.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>