<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-5B50E929-5C29-5920-965E-24F6CB616AC9"><title>Management and searching</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>These classes provide high level file system functions which can operate on files and directories located throughout a directory hierarchy and which can take some time to complete.</p> <p>The classes provide services to:</p> <ul><li id="GUID-9B28F1D4-CE2A-5037-BE14-55B69403390B"><p>scan through a hierarchy, upwards or downwards, returning a filtered list of the entries contained in each directory</p> </li> <li id="GUID-CFDED758-5F8C-5DF1-83A7-B6774E9243D3"><p>carry out file management operations on files and directories in the hierarchy, for example, deleting an entire directory structure or moving a group of files</p> </li> <li id="GUID-6B959F2A-B707-5F12-9BCD-C70CA33C9126"><p>search for each occurrence of a filename in one or more directories.</p> </li> </ul> <p>File management is provided by <codeph>CFileMan</codeph> class. Its functions may operate recursively or non-recursively and accept the use of wildcards. Synchronous and asynchronous variants are provided for each of these functions and the use of the <codeph>MFileManObserver</codeph> protocol allows user notification to take place during the operation.</p> <p><codeph>TFindFile</codeph> and <codeph>CFileMan</codeph> classes support the use of wildcard characters. An asterisk indicates any number of characters, and a question mark indicates a single character. Note that in the context of these classes, <codeph>*</codeph> and <codeph>*.*</codeph> are equivalent and match to all files, with and without extensions. Filename matching is case insensitive.</p> <p>Before using any of these classes, a connection to a file server session must have been made and is passed to the constructor of the class. </p> </conbody></concept>