<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-08CEB0E8-7E94-545F-AA0C-E27CED08C167"><title>Copyright information</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><section><title>Overview</title> <p>Parts of the C Standard library code are covered by one or more of the following copyright notices. </p> </section> <section><title>Berkeley copyright messages </title> <p>Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided that this notice is preserved and that due credit is given to the University of California at Berkeley. The name of the University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty. </p> <p>All rights reserved. </p> <p>Copyright (c) 1982, 1986 Regents of the University of California. </p> <p>Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation, advertising materials, and other materials related to such distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed by the University of California, Berkeley. The name of the University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. </p> <p>All rights reserved. </p> <p>Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California. </p> <p>THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. </p> <p>4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. </p> <p>"This product includes software developed by the University of California, Berkeley and its contributors." </p> <p>3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: </p> <p>2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. </p> <p>1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. </p> <p>Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: </p> <p>All rights reserved. </p> <p>Copyright (c) 1988 Regents of the University of California. </p> </section> <section><title>FreeBSD copyright messages</title> <p>THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP. DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. </p> <p>Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies, and that the name of Digital Equipment Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the document or software without specific, written prior permission. </p> <p>Portions Copyright (c) 1993 by Digital Equipment Corporation. </p> <p>THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. </p> <p>4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. </p> <p>This product includes software developed by the University of California, Berkeley and its contributors. </p> <p>3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: </p> <p>2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. </p> <p>1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. </p> <p>Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: </p> <p>The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. </p> <p>Copyright (c) 1980, 1983, 1988, 1993 </p> </section> <section><title>Sun Microsystems copyright message</title> <p>Copyright (C) 1993 by Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved. Developed at SunPro, a Sun Microsystems, Inc. business. Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software is freely granted, provided that this notice is preserved. </p> </section> </conbody></concept>