<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-9535CF67-7541-554E-BE5C-9FDDFDB58EA5"><title>targettype</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p> <codeph>targettype</codeph>  <varname>target-type</varname>  </p> <p>Use the <codeph>targettype</codeph> statement to specify the kind of project. </p> <p>The following target types are supported: </p> <table id="GUID-62E080EB-BB41-51C4-BCCF-9DB1D785D8CC"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><thead><row><entry>Target type</entry> <entry>Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <codeph>ani</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A window server animation DLL. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>app</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A GUI application. This is deprecated at v9.0. Applications must be converted to EXEs. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>ctl</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A system control. This is deprecated at v9.0. They must be converted to applications. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>dll</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A DLL: either a shared library, or a polymorphic interface. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>ecomiic</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>An ECOM implementation collection. This is deprecated at v9.0. The <codeph>plugin</codeph> target type should be used instead. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>epocexe</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A Symbian platform executable that can be launched from the shell. This is an executable program which exports no functions under a multi-process platform and a DLL which is linked with the <codeph>TIntWinsMain()</codeph> function exported as ordinal 1 under a single-process platform. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>exe</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>An executable program. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>exedll</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>An executable program for a multi-process platform, a DLL for a single-process platform. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>exexp</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>An executable program with exports. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>fsy</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A plug-in file system. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>implib</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Results solely in the generation of a <filepath>.lib</filepath> file. It is an error for a component of the <codeph>IMPLIB</codeph> type to contain <codeph>SOURCE</codeph> statements and the build tools enforce this. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>kdll</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A kernel DLL. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>kext</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A kernel extension. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>klib</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A kernel library. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>ldd</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A logical device driver. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>lib</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A static library. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>mda</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A media-server plug-in DLL (deprecated). </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>mdl</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A MIME recognizer. This is deprecated at v9.0, and should be converted to <codeph>PLUGIN</codeph> (ECOM). </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>none</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A bitmap or resource file without any executable. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>notifier</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>An extended notifier DLL. This is deprecated at v9.0, and should be converted to <codeph>PLUGIN</codeph> (ECOM). </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>opx</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>An OPL extension. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>plugin</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>An ECOM implementation collection. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>plugin3</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>An ECOM implementation collection that supports extended interfaces. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>pdd</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A physical device driver. You can export functions from <codeph>pdd</codeph> if you have a <filepath>.def</filepath> file specified in the <codeph>pdd</codeph>'s matching <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>pdl</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A printer driver. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>rdl</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A recognizer. This is deprecated at v9.0, and should be converted to <codeph>PLUGIN</codeph> (ECOM). </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>stdexe</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A P.I.P.S. EXE, which is identified by the following UIDs on a Symbian platform: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-C8D20CDE-93C3-5DAA-AF63-792CEDDAD8CA"><p>UID1 - <codeph>0x1000007a</codeph>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-0CC91D83-3913-50CE-9A43-38A549013DAC"><p>UID2 - <codeph>0x20004C45</codeph>  </p> </li> </ul> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>stddll</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A P.I.P.S. DLL, which is identified by the following UIDs on a Symbian platform: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-D740F0F0-2525-507F-8124-2EE6A5C6830D"><p>UID1 - <codeph>0x10000079</codeph>  </p> </li> <li id="GUID-4727392C-DF4B-52C4-82AF-8D24E32D713E"><p>UID2 - <codeph>0x20004C45</codeph>  </p> </li> </ul> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>stdlib</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A P.I.P.S. static library. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <codeph>var</codeph>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>A variant file. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> <p> <b>Note</b>: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-D5C36122-4EF5-53FA-92E5-D9D867468121"><p>For more information about the target types <codeph>stdexe</codeph>, <codeph>stddll</codeph> and <codeph>stdlib</codeph>, refer to <xref href="GUID-1560C4FF-82EC-5E5D-A37D-3BBE046F0A5B.dita">Target Types</xref>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-BB14CA0D-AF24-5CDA-9ED7-C6AF63365788"><p>The target types <codeph>ecomiic</codeph>, <codeph>kdll</codeph>, <codeph>kext</codeph>, <codeph>klib</codeph>, <codeph>ldd</codeph>, <codeph>pdd</codeph> and <codeph>var</codeph> are built in ARM mode, as these targets have access to kernel APIs. That is, all the kernel code is built in ARM mode using <codeph>--arm</codeph> compiler option, whereas all the user code is built in THUMB mode using <codeph>--thumb</codeph> compiler option. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-64DACAC4-9262-511C-ACC6-ACEF3EB9B9FE"><p>The target types <codeph>stdexe</codeph>, <codeph>stddll</codeph> and <codeph>stdlib</codeph> are supported only on ARM ABI and Symbian emulator compliant platforms, such as, <codeph>ARMv5</codeph>, <codeph>ARMv5_ABIv2</codeph>, <codeph>GCCE</codeph> and <codeph>WINSCW</codeph>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-6BC8C17A-D28E-5672-A6A5-AF5E2EFE8192"><p>When exporting functions from the target types, build system can auto generate <filepath>.def</filepath> files only for <codeph>DLL</codeph>, <codeph>EXEDLL</codeph>, <codeph>EXEXP</codeph>, and <codeph>STDDLL</codeph> target types even if, you do not have a <filepath>.def</filepath> file specified in the matching <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file. </p> </li> </ul> </conbody></concept>