<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-5986717C-C777-590D-8487-CB8ED488E975" xml:lang="en"><title>makmake
command syntax</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Symbian projects are defined by an <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file which
specifies the essential elements of the project. The <filepath>makmake</filepath> tool
then uses this environment neutral file to build makefiles for use in various
environments. These makefiles are then used for project development. </p>
<p><b>Invocation syntax </b> </p>
<p> <codeph>makmake</codeph> [ <varname>options</varname> ] [ <varname>source-path</varname> ] <varname>project</varname> <varname>platform</varname>  </p>
<p>Details of <varname>options</varname>, <varname>source-path</varname>, <varname>project</varname>,
and <varname>platform</varname> are given below. </p>
<p><b>Options </b> </p>
<table id="GUID-BDAF523E-3992-5F10-9509-101F41F14CCF">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph> -d</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Indicates that the makefile is to be created in directory <filepath>epoc32\build\</filepath> <varname>path_to_mmp_file</varname> <filepath>\</filepath> <codeph>mmp_basename</codeph> <filepath>\</filepath> <varname>platform</varname> rather
than the directory in which <filepath>makmake</filepath> was invoked. </p> <p>Note
that relative paths within the created makefile will be relative to the directory
in which <filepath>makmake </filepath> was invoked so <filepath>nmake</filepath> should
be invoked from that directory too if the project is to build correctly. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph> -v</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Indicates verbose operation </p> <p>When this flag is specified, <filepath>makmake</filepath> prints
many progress messages. The default is to give error messages only. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph> -mmp</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Provides basic syntax guide to writing <filepath>.mmp</filepath> files
instead of making the makefile. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph> -plat </codeph>  <varname>platform</varname>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Provides syntax guide to writing platform-specific sections of <filepath>.mmp</filepath> files,
and information about which macros are defined for preprocessing the <filepath>.mmp</filepath> files. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-arm</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Instructs an ARMV5 build to not build the project as THUMB, but
as the appropriate ARM ABI. </p> <p>For details, see <xref href="GUID-EFF3BD37-BC29-52F5-B8AA-6362F0C3E20F.dita">ARMV5
build target</xref>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-debug</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Generates symbolic debug information for release or debug builds. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-no_debug</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Does not generate symbolic debug information for release or debug
builds. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>Note that you can either use <codeph>-debug</codeph> to generate or <codeph>-no_debug</codeph> to
not generate the symbolic debug information, irrespective of <codeph>UREL</codeph> or <codeph>UDEB</codeph> build. </p>
<p><b>source-path </b> </p>
<p>This specifies the path of the source <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file, relative
to the current directory. </p>
<p>If omitted, the source <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file is <codeph>project</codeph> <filepath>.mmp</filepath> in
the current directory. </p>
<p>Whether or not the <varname>source-path</varname> is specified, the generated
makefile is always written into the current directory. </p>
<p><b>project </b> </p>
<p>This specifies the project for which to create the makefile. </p>
<p><b>platform </b> </p>
<p>This specifies the target platform, e.g. <codeph>thumb</codeph> or <codeph>winscw</codeph>. </p>
<p><b>Command output </b> </p>
<p>The output makefile name in most cases has the form <varname>project-name</varname>.<varname>platform-name</varname>.
The exceptions are for <codeph>cw_ide</codeph>, which produces a <filepath>.xml</filepath> file,
which can be imported into CodeWarrior, and <codeph>vc6</codeph> and <codeph>vc6winc</codeph>,
which produce <filepath>.dsw</filepath> and <codeph>.dsp</codeph> files. </p>
</conbody></concept>