<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task xml:lang="en" id="GUID-DA1D89FF-52BD-5876-B7A1-300F5EBB9884"><title>Converting Manual Aperture to Automatic Aperture</title><shortdesc>This topic explains how to prepare the camera for the automatic aperture setting. By default, the automatic aperture setting is used if no manual aperture value has been given. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody> <prereq id="GUID-8FE6CE45-D57D-5E9C-A7AE-F11A228AB300"><p>Before you start you should understand the <xref href="GUID-80EC80E2-E197-50F7-B1FD-720A00AC3B4D.dita">Onboard Camera Overview</xref> topic. </p> </prereq> <context><p>The automatic aperture setting is implementation specific as to whether the default aperture is auto-aperture or any other value. If the camera cannot determine the aperture value being used, the <codeph>KErrNotFound</codeph> error is returned. </p> </context> <steps id="GUID-29060A3C-94A7-5260-924C-C40101B94C8F"><step id="GUID-4CDAE835-DC3A-50E8-86F6-C314EBBDAFDE"><cmd/><info>Pass <codeph>KUidECamEvent2CameraSettingAutoAperture</codeph> as a value to <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita"><apiname>TECAMEvent2</apiname></xref> to notify the camera that the auto aperture setting is to be used. <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita"><apiname>TECAMEvent2::iParam()</apiname></xref> represents the actual numerical value of aperture being used for the the auto aperture setting. </info> </step> <step id="GUID-D5F27CFB-B712-572B-A245-409FAA22541A"><cmd/><info>Use the <codeph>KUidECamEvent2CameraSettingAutoAperture</codeph> value when you do not specify an aperture value in the <xref href="GUID-021C509B-C821-3401-B2F4-DE7F52BB16D4.dita"><apiname>CCameraAdvancedSettings::SetAperture(TInt)</apiname></xref> function or when you select exposure to the <codeph>EExposureAuto</codeph> or <codeph>EExposureShutterPriority</codeph> value. </info> <info>Note: By default <codeph>CCamera</codeph> has an automatic aperture setting . </info> </step> </steps> </taskbody><related-links><link href="GUID-6A7F8298-F3E9-513C-8C1F-D057AC62E5E3.dita"><linktext>Advanced Settings for Focus, Drive Modes, and
                Bracket Modes</linktext> </link> </related-links></task>