<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-27895B0A-4C0F-403D-A839-F15B2F102A21" xml:lang="en"><title>Select
and activate: two short taps</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Because the Symbian OS is fundamentally a focus-based UI,
there are many places where one tap must move the focus to an item, and then
a second tap will be required to activate the functionality. In other words,
it is not possible to open or activate an item from a focusable view directly
with a single tap unless the focus is already on the given item. For example,
a tap on a message in the Inbox moves the focus onto it, a tap on <b>Options</b> means
that the options related to the focused message are presented and can be selected
(e.g. <b>Delete</b>). The two taps required to select and activate are not
time-dependant in any way. The only exception to the time dependency is in
the Touch Dialer special characters pop-up.</p>
<p>A single short tap in lists is enough when there are only two avenues available
to proceed to: the softkeys <b>Ok</b> and <b>Cancel</b>. In such a case, a
tap on an item performs the same function as the left softkey and the Selection
key. In other words, when a list has the <b>Options</b> menu under the left
softkey, two taps for focus and activate are necessary.</p>
<p>Buttons, icons and items within <b>Options</b> menus, etc. operate with
a short tap. In general, this is how mouse-driven PC UIs work (with mouse
clicks).</p>
<section id="GUID-FFF3DEE9-30DD-4E72-826E-E6CC660E4208"><title>Using
touch events in C++ applications</title><p>For implementation information
on using the <xref href="GUID-29486886-CB54-4A83-AD6D-70F971A86DFC.dita">application
and UI frameworks</xref> for receiving touch events, see <xref href="GUID-EF7FF39E-929F-4767-B475-5D582D37BB32.dita">Window
server events</xref> and <xref href="GUID-4D2AA522-82AB-4D1E-9F1E-5C6A35DEF195.dita">Pointer
events</xref>.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>