<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-3CA039D8-A74D-4C9E-B4F5-6E153C7F65A1" xml:lang="en"><title>Finger
vs. stylus </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section> <p>Consider the use cases of the application when deciding whether
to use finger or stylus control, or possibly hardware keys. Eliminate the
need to switch from using a finger or stylus on the touch screen, to using
any of the hardware keys. Design should enable completing a task with the
same interaction method as it was started with.</p><note>If your application
is intended to be used with the stylus, rather than a finger, try to present
this clearly to the users from the top level. It can be frustrating to start
using an application with finger touch, then switching to stylus, for example,
if the components on screen suddenly get smaller. </note><p>Decide whether
the application is to be used with a single hand, or two hands. Make sure
users are able to use at least the most important functions with only one
hand, even though the application is designed to be used mainly with two hands.
 With touch screen devices, this means that the users should be able to perform
most basic actions with their thumb.</p> <p>Applications that require the
use of both hands include:</p><ul>
<li><p>Applications that require the use of stylus</p></li>
<li><p>Applications that are intended for landscape mode</p></li>
<li><p>Applications that require data input </p></li>
</ul> </section>
</conbody></concept>