<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="GUID-7BCA8B7A-E250-5452-9837-26C60F71F14F" xml:lang="en"><title>Alarm
Properties Reference</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><refbody>
<section><p>This section provides a summary of mandatory and optional Alarm
properties that must be set before adding an alarm to the Alarm Server. </p> <p>The
following Alarm property is <i>mandatory</i>: </p> </section>
<table id="GUID-A097D4DD-A8FE-5E79-B90B-770D17104932">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0" colwidth="0.43*"/><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.57*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Property</b></p></entry>
<entry><p><b>Description</b></p></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>NextDueTime</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Indicates the time that the alarm will expire. </p><p>The <codeph>KErrArgument</codeph> error
is returned when an alarm is added without the next due time being set. </p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<section><p> </p> <p>The following Alarm properties are <i>optional</i>: </p> </section>
<table id="GUID-E40B0108-874F-5CC6-9406-D3A9EB487FC1">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0" colwidth="0.58*"/><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.42*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Property</b></p></entry>
<entry><p><b>Description</b></p></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>RepeatDefinition</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Indicates the alarm repeat definition. </p><ul>
<li id="GUID-D64B190D-D97A-58CD-91B3-44FE3637FA71"><p> <b>RepeatOnce</b> –
The alarm expires once and then deleted from the Alarm Server. This is the
default value. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-32C0FAF5-96F9-5DC9-AFDD-29FB67F51417"><p> <b>Next24hours</b> –
The alarm is scheduled to notify at the given time, within the next 24 hours.
The alarm is then deleted from the Alarm Server. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-13FCA81D-FABF-5585-B093-2D9FC405721B"><p> <b>Daily</b> – The
alarm repeats every day at the same time. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C0FF139B-03C5-5756-B0A3-ED0C496E8A81"><p> <b>WorkDay</b> – The
alarm repeats on workdays at the same time. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-33AC43FC-412E-557C-A9FB-B2063FDEF9EC"><p> <b>Weekly</b> – The
alarm repeats at the same time, on the same day, every week. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-92BD2CFB-033C-5B3D-B1F5-D60987804814"><p> <b>DailyOnGivenDays</b> –
The alarm repeats at the same time on the specified days of the week. </p> </li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Message</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Indicates the message displayed by the UI when the alarm expires.
The maximum allowable length of the message is defined by <codeph>KMaxAlarmMessageLength</codeph>.
The <codeph>KErrArgument</codeph> error is returned when an alarm is added
to the server with a message exceeding this length. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>SoundName </b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Indicates the name of the sound file that must be played when the
alarm expires. The maximum allowable length of the sound name is defined by <codeph>KMaxAlarmSoundNameLength</codeph>.
The <codeph>KErrArgument</codeph> error is returned when an alarm is added
with a sound name exceeding this length. The Alarm Server does not check the
validity of the sound name. The UI must handle the scenarios where neither
sound name is provided nor valid. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Category</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>It is an UID provided by a client to group the alarms registered
with the Alarm Server. This allows the Alarm Server to perform specific operations
on particular group of alarms, on behalf of the client. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Characteristics</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>A flag that indicates whether: </p><ul>
<li id="GUID-BD57C6CE-B347-5942-90A9-3BE3C04D2ABB"><p>the caller is notified
when the alarm expires and </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-6ABFC447-6C24-51E6-973A-4994297D5C16"><p>the UI is asked to display
an alarm dialog when the alarm notifies. </p> </li>
</ul><p>By default, the caller is not notified when an alarm expires and the
UI is requested to display an alarm dialog when the alarm expires. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b> DayOrTimed</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>A flag that indicates whether the alarm is associated with a day
or timed appointment. The default is Timed. This flag is for the client’s
use only, and is not used by the Alarm Server. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>WakeUp</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>A flag that indicates whether the device must be made activate at
the next due time of this alarm. By default, alarms do not cause a device
wakeup. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <b>Continuous</b>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>A flag that indicates whether or not the alarm must play continuously
when it expires. If this flag is set, it overrides the alarm play intervals. </p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></refbody></reference>