<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-C519E523-E908-5185-949C-C1FAC0BAF0D9" xml:lang="en"><title>Histograms</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This document introduces you to the Histogram API of the Ecam component. </p>
<section><title>Purpose</title> <p>This document shows you the detailed description
of tutorial and how to work with it. </p> </section>
<section><title>Introduction</title> <p>A Histogram is a graph that gives
the information about the exposure of the captured frame. It gives details
about the distribution of light on a picture. </p> <p>The histogram explains
which portions of the frame are over-exposed or under-exposed and helps you
to adjust the captured frame accordingly. </p> <p>You can display the histogram
information directly on a viewfinder or analyze it using any analysis software. </p> <p><b>Setup and Configuration Requirements</b> </p> <p>The following examples
assume a camera object exists. </p> <p>The code in this tutorial
can be found in <filepath>…\os\mm\imagingandcamerafws\cameraunittest\src\ECamUnitTestPlugin\extended_functionality.cpp</filepath>. </p> </section>
<section><title>Using Histogram </title> <p>The histograms can be created
for: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-F84ADD35-2C3E-5FCD-9AD7-E7868874767F"><p>still image </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-24EDCC63-7DC9-5176-BDD8-CF5555358876"><p>video frames </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-8F776636-79CA-5ED6-AFD3-1BF5D878E6A5"><p>both client and direct
viewfinders. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-5A5DDB8C-1E70-5B63-96F1-7ABBFA568866.dita"><linktext>Creating
Histograms</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-7022455A-E738-574E-897E-33243482D69A.dita"><linktext>Working with
Histograms</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-7F6A463C-2D33-5B6D-9394-DCB55FEEB5A3.dita"><linktext>Stopping
Histograms</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>