<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-0BF25E2A-99B9-5558-B805-019430409518"><title>SBSv1 and SBSv2 Build Systems</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>Symbian provides two command line build systems, called SBSv1 and SBSv2, to build Symbian platform and applications developed for Symbian platform. </p> <p>SBSv1 is the name that is now given to the <codeph>bldmake</codeph> and <codeph>abld</codeph> build tools that have been provided on Symbian platform kits since Symbian OS v6. In SBSv1 , <codeph>bldmake</codeph> first generates top-level makefiles for a component, then <codeph>abld</codeph> builds the component. The <codeph>bldmake</codeph> and the <codeph>abld</codeph> commands must be run from the directory containing the <filepath>bld.inf</filepath> file. The documentation for the these tools is provided in the Symbian Developer Library. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-793A5EF9-CC16-5EEB-9011-6431EA76EB15.dita">How to use bldmake</xref> and <xref href="GUID-B6B54E07-3B34-5D5C-8815-93383FA8FB4B.dita">How to use abld</xref>. </p> <p>SBSv2 is a newer build system. Its advantages over SBSv1 include: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-FAA52CDF-408E-54E5-A7A5-2E96BC48FB27"><p>It can run on both Microsoft Windows and Linux operating systems. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-C266954C-BC42-5030-B3CA-E002CAECBAC7"><p>It can use third-party make engine to run parallel builds. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-84C7E8AD-9380-5683-BE6D-4512CB0FB404"><p>It can build the entire Symbian platform from a system definition file. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-F6888067-D5D5-560A-87D1-AA973AD9FEE2"><p>It generates and builds the makefiles in a single step. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-F6555FF3-11C8-50B8-8C7C-0D63AFC30B8C"><p>It can be used from any directory location. </p> </li> </ul> <p>Though SBSv2 uses the same build metadata files (<filepath>bld.inf</filepath> and <filepath>.mmp</filepath>) as SBSv1 for building Symbian platform, SBSv2 can help achieve improved build speed over SBSv1. </p> <p>For more information about SBSv2, see the <i>Symbian Build System v2</i> documentation that is provided with the Platform Developer Toolkit. </p> </conbody></concept>