<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-AA02BFA9-E62E-56FC-BF22-8FE092ABD9DA"><title>The wsini.ini File</title><shortdesc>This topic provides an introduction to the <filepath>wsini.ini</filepath> file, which configures the Window Server. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>You can use the parameters in the <filepath>wsini.ini</filepath> file to configure the emulator and the shell running on a target phone for debugging or test purposes. For example, you can specify parameters to turn on Window Server logging in order to log all Window Server events. This is useful for debugging Window Server client applications. Window Server logging is controlled by parameters in the <filepath>wsini.ini</filepath> file. Other <filepath>wsini.ini</filepath> settings control the choice of shell, the shell reboot behavior, and configure screens and plug-ins. </p> <p>On a multi-screen device, you can specify the screen-specific parameters separately for each screen. Each screen can have several modes (such as portrait and landscape). For each mode you can specify a variety of parameters, such as scaling and the origin from which all top-level windows are positioned. </p> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-1D529BDC-6665-58E2-AB3F-7023D8A84F69.dita"><linktext>The wsini.ini File
                Reference</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-6E8807F5-9CC0-5A70-8182-22230D43AA9E.dita"><linktext>Setting Up Window Server
                Logging</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>