<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-AAAC7887-93A8-5F8D-98D4-44FAD26C228A"><title>Multimedia Shared Library Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This document provides an overview of the Multimedia Shared Library. </p> <section><title>Purpose</title> <p>This library provides shared utilities for Digital Rights Management (DRM) protected content sources. </p> <p><b>Multimedia Shared Library Details</b> </p> <p>The DLL that provides the functionality and the library to which your code must link is identified below. </p> <table id="GUID-38BA2E75-A617-5901-BA0A-B0C5061C7A0A"><tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><thead><row><entry>DLL</entry> <entry>LIB</entry> <entry>Short Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <b>mmcommon.dll</b>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <b>mmcommon.lib</b>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>These files are used for implementing the Multimedia Shared Library. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> <section><title>Architectural Relationship</title> <p>The Multimedia Shared Library is used by MMF audio and video clients with DRM capability. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-6E52C463-5489-591F-859D-68EAD5BA80FD.dita">Multimedia Framework Guide</xref>. </p> </section> <section><title>Description</title> <p>The Symbian platform provides support for playback of DRM protected content. The Multimedia Shared Library enables multimedia clients to handle sources of DRM protected content. </p> </section> <section><title>Key Multimedia Shared Library Classes</title> <p>The functionality provided by the Multimedia Shared Library is contained within the following classes: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-FE0F1E1B-7CD7-5424-9B2C-84F1C9C62194"><p> <xref href="GUID-D5CAB47C-B2BE-34F5-AD5C-E00D78632F13.dita"><apiname>TMMSource</apiname></xref> - provides a lightweight encapsulation of a DRM protected content source. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-E8DD6A12-AF37-531C-9F62-2364B9534C71"><p> <xref href="GUID-9927F238-DBE6-3399-AD4F-D669C8A59158.dita"><apiname>TMMFileSource</apiname></xref> - provides a consistent interface between filename based and file handle based interfaces. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-AACA6E7C-B6D5-564F-9208-83B6D59469F3"><p> <xref href="GUID-7DA9F454-E46E-3AA3-883F-8EC1687C42C7.dita"><apiname>TMMFileHandleSource</apiname></xref> - provides a file handle to DRM protected content source. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>Using the Multimedia Shared Library</title> <p>Clients can use the Multimedia Shared Library to: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-D73F2F59-D099-5DC0-A7C8-95306024C853"><p>Initialise a DRM protected content source. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-88D13621-2F0E-5279-B14C-5CF5877D1596"><p>Construct a new <codeph>TMMFileSource</codeph> object. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-77736B31-A72B-5344-84F2-FE874CD937A7"><p>Construct a new <codeph>TMMFileHandleSource</codeph> object. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>See Also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-7EE46FD9-DC9E-5C1F-9AC5-48F5212AF0CA.dita">Content Access Framework</xref>  </p> </section> </conbody></concept>