<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-4BAA1BE9-E590-564E-8D5C-C7191AB4D8A6" xml:lang="en"><title>BitmapsShell: dealing with bitmaps</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p> <b>Note: </b> This example is designed to work with TechView and
there is no guarantee that it will work with other interfaces. </p>
<section id="GUID-74B6AED9-FC4B-5076-8F26-4E74D59CC41C"><title>Download</title><p>Click on the following link to download the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-e054d812-b1ca-4c8e-92b3-fa955030d94b.zip" scope="external">BitmapsShell.zip</xref></p>Download some additional
files required by the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-a92c7d47-fa68-49c6-9e43-c9c2e650f219.zip" scope="external">CommonGraphicsExampleFiles</xref><p>Click: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-e054d812-b1ca-4c8e-92b3-fa955030d94b.html" scope="peer">browse</xref> to view the example code. </p>View the
additional files: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-a92c7d47-fa68-49c6-9e43-c9c2e650f219.html" scope="peer">browse</xref>. </section>
<section id="GUID-E39C34AA-AF51-4BAB-84A9-47DA75E7D306"><title>Description</title> <p> <filepath>BitmapsShell</filepath> provides an application shell,
and two concrete controls. </p> <p> <codeph>CGraphicExampleControl</codeph> is a control class, derived from <codeph>CCoeControl</codeph>, which
links the app shell to the particular controls. </p> <p>The <codeph>CBitmapControl</codeph> and <codeph>CFbsControl</codeph> classes,
derived from <codeph>CGraphicExampleControl</codeph>, define behaviour
for their particular controls. </p> <p> <codeph>CBitmapControl</codeph> illustrates the handling and rendering of bitmaps. </p> <p> <codeph>CFbsControl</codeph> illustrates the use of the font and bitmap server. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-52E4FBBB-D279-4244-9B3F-AAADD6829476"><title>Build</title> <p>The source code for this example application can be found in
the directory: </p> <p> <filepath>examples\Graphics\Bitmaps</filepath>  </p> <p>This source code may be in the directory in which you installed
the Symbian platform, or it may be in <filepath>src\common\developerlibrary\</filepath> directory. The directory includes the two project files needed for
building the example: <filepath>bld.inf</filepath> and the <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file. </p> <p>The Symbian build process describes
how to build this application. For the emulator, an application called <filepath>BitmapsShell.exe</filepath> is created in <filepath>epoc32\release\winscw\&lt;udeb
or urel&gt;\</filepath>. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-04A68A9E-6D1D-48B4-878E-9762840A67C5"><title>Usage</title> <ol id="GUID-3ABD703F-E0C1-578E-8CE9-213718309521">
<li id="GUID-E238C82F-AB63-5020-AFC6-D381DF702EE8"><p>Launch the emulator: </p> <p> <filepath>\epoc32\release\winscw\&lt;urel or udeb&gt;\EPOC.EXE</filepath>. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-BA871F35-5B3B-5B24-92B3-A0EC6444ED64"><p>Click on <systemoutput>BITMAPSSHELL</systemoutput> to run the application. If using the <i>TechView</i> emulator, this will be in the <i>Extras</i> menu. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-FD674483-076C-5C17-8557-FECA3D7031F0"><p>The controls
are listed on the menu <systemoutput>List of                 Programs</systemoutput>. Press the appropriate menu item to select a specific control. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-B304AB5B-CB36-5803-ADD8-8D941B9AFB57"><p>Step through
each phase of an example by pressing the space bar or by tapping on
the window drawn by that example. </p> </li>
</ol> </section>
<section id="GUID-6B54F33D-8C26-4B44-9979-996AC5FF0CC1"><title>Class
Summary</title><p>By the bitmap control: </p><p><xref href="GUID-339EC4C5-89DC-3972-9579-6DD38D418317.dita"><apiname>TPoint</apiname></xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-101762DC-E498-3325-88AB-B0FF17DC62B6.dita"><apiname>TRect</apiname></xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-938244B2-5E1A-39F7-8ACA-E6DE4C44A313.dita"><apiname>TSize</apiname></xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-0AEE5955-C530-35F1-A904-69183331B294.dita"><apiname>CWindowGc</apiname></xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-F84C7F40-6DEB-39D1-B172-CB0CC3918E27.dita"><apiname>TRgb</apiname></xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-2A12FE3B-47F2-3016-8161-A971CA506491.dita"><apiname>CFont</apiname></xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-683A1D42-2764-3EB7-BD19-9E12559199AB.dita"><apiname>CFbsBitmap</apiname></xref></p><p>By the font and bitmap server control: </p><p><xref href="GUID-0AEE5955-C530-35F1-A904-69183331B294.dita"><apiname>CWindowGc</apiname></xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-683A1D42-2764-3EB7-BD19-9E12559199AB.dita"><apiname>CFbsBitmap</apiname></xref></p></section>
</conbody></concept>