<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-2D20B6DF-BE02-50CF-8E9F-14E3402EF952"><title>Setting Video Metadata</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>This tutorial describes how to set video metadata. </p> <section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The purpose of this tutorial is to show you how to set and retrieve metadata entries for a video clip. </p> <p><b>Required Background</b> </p> <p>The <xref href="GUID-2DC80BA9-7AA2-5CD3-9105-1DE28CE196C1.dita">Video Client Overview</xref> introduces the video client utilities. </p> <p><b>Introduction</b> </p> <p>The video recorder utility is used to record video clips to files, descriptors or URLs and manipulate embedded meta data. This functionality is implemented by the <xref href="GUID-8A183C79-0EA4-3A4A-B95F-E2F1BF74238D.dita"><apiname>CVideoRecorderUtility</apiname></xref> class. </p> </section> <section id="GUID-2E99CC17-7CBB-5591-AA32-C4875ACDEDF1"><title>Using Video Metadata </title> <p>The following tasks will be covered in this tutorial: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-F171A9C5-D680-5555-ACC7-D834273086CA"><p><xref href="GUID-2D20B6DF-BE02-50CF-8E9F-14E3402EF952.dita#GUID-2D20B6DF-BE02-50CF-8E9F-14E3402EF952/GUID-2E99CC17-7CBB-5591-AA32-C4875ACDEDF1">Set and Retrieve Metadata Entries </xref>  </p> </li> </ul> <p><b>Basic Procedure</b> </p> <p>The high level steps to set and retrieve metadata entries are shown here: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-E8722BDE-FDA7-5FA1-9554-38E686F461BE"><p>To set various metadata entries, use the <xref href="GUID-8A183C79-0EA4-3A4A-B95F-E2F1BF74238D.dita#GUID-8A183C79-0EA4-3A4A-B95F-E2F1BF74238D/GUID-7002D48D-8249-3A61-9BB7-B074C9A54B58"><apiname>CVideoRecorderUtility::AddMetaDataEntryL()</apiname></xref> function. The metadata entries are stored within the clip itself and can be retrieved or modified anytime during the recording.This is usually used to store information such as copyright information, creator, creation date and so on. </p> <p>The following code adds the copyright information to the video clip: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-5AD054E8-2244-5916-8F74-931331745ECA" xml:space="preserve">// Create Meta Entries
_LIT(name,"&lt;Copyright&gt;");
_LIT(data,"&lt;Symbian ©) 2002&gt;");
CMMFMetaDataEntry* metaData = NULL;
metaData = CMMFMetaDataEntry::NewL(name,data);
CleanupStack::PushL(metaData);
// Add the meta data entry
TRAP(err, iVideoRecorderUtility-&gt;AddMetaDataEntryL(*metaData));</codeblock> </li> <li id="GUID-0A358498-EB7A-5E45-A79F-02D54055CFDF"><p>To retrieve specific metadata entries from a video clip, use the <xref href="GUID-8A183C79-0EA4-3A4A-B95F-E2F1BF74238D.dita#GUID-8A183C79-0EA4-3A4A-B95F-E2F1BF74238D/GUID-A59D9E32-5F57-3855-AC40-7A700F312808"><apiname>CVideoRecorderUtility::MetaDataEntryL()</apiname></xref> function. </p> </li> </ul> </section> <section><title>See Also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-688C515E-3D1B-51BB-A776-A246FA232061.dita">Creating and Preparing a Video Recorder</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-3B250C0E-5D53-53ED-A02C-16FE8EAEDF86.dita">Configuring the Video Recorder</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-ED700A4A-3BBF-5048-92CB-E3677A0FD09F.dita">Enabling/Disabling Video Recording</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-C08BBBAD-3605-53E3-A94F-ECCFFB80E1DD.dita">Controlling Video Recording Quality</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-18D7228F-A1E5-594A-B654-EF5D74CE17D2.dita">Recording Video Data</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-44EDB476-33E2-5D91-8CC2-A04369AACCA4.dita">Controlling the Video Plugin</xref>  </p> </section> </conbody></concept>