<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-DB6F586B-932A-4BDC-BA48-79C7D3FD9931" xml:lang="en"><title>OOM
Plug-ins</title><shortdesc>This section describes OOM plug-ins and how the priority of OOM
plug-ins can be specified.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>An OOM plug-in is a gateway component, which releases RAM from a running
application or server. The function of OOM plug-in is to delegate the OOM
commands from OOM Monitor to the application. Each application provides its
own OOM plug-in, which allows OOM Monitor to communicate with that application.
The application associated with an OOM plug-in is referred as the target application
of the plug-in. </p>
<section id="GUID-61B51FD7-A314-4779-99BC-660276A409B5"><title>Priority for
OOM Plug-ins</title><p>Each OOM plug-in has a priority assigned by the OOM
Monitor in the configuration file. The priority of an OOM plug-in determines
the priority of the optional RAM allocation. For more information on setting
the priorities in the configuration file, refer to <xref href="GUID-178488C1-5453-490F-B168-9D73DB5BAE47.dita">Priority
Configuration</xref>. OOM Monitor uses the lowest priority action to release
RAM whether it is closing an application or calling a plug-in. </p><p>In the
OOM Monitor configuration file, the priority of a plug-in should
always be configured lower than the priority of its target application. Otherwise
the plug-in will never be used for releasing RAM, because the target application
is always closed before calling the plug-in.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-F5AE7E31-0E65-42F9-8145-18E16F3241BE"><title>Related Links</title><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-7D727FC9-EF32-49FD-B72E-E1E00315206E.dita">Optional RAM
Allocation</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-217C992B-AC56-42A7-9920-DEC891D233A5.dita">Requesting for
Optional RAM Allocation</xref></p></li>
</ul></section>
</conbody></concept>