<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-EF49C43F-E9ED-5B4D-B9C4-376B9A4E3FA6"><title>Using a Bitmap-Patterned Brush</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><p>If the brush style is set to a patterned brush, then a bitmap can be used for filling shapes. The following example code illustrate how this is done. The bitmap is tiled around the given origin - the top left of the window is the default - and clipped to the given shape. The second bitmapped brush example shows the effect of moving the origin. </p> <section><title>Using a bitmap patterned brush, with the default origin</title> <ol id="GUID-0F5408B2-5F0C-5810-90F0-AF53F435A809"><li id="GUID-60F09B34-5E46-5CEB-BB18-836D144AAF9A"><p>Load the bitmap file in the standard way. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-6516A6C9-161E-5E15-8F27-624E95BFF78C"><p>Use the bitmap as the graphics context’s brush pattern. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-F2AF6104-7D12-5120-AB35-267AFB4DB80E"><p>Set the brush style to <codeph>TBrushStyle::EPatternedBrush</codeph>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-290DBDCC-8159-54F4-9587-BEA4B9EBEF9B"><p>Discard the brush pattern using <codeph>DiscardBrushPattern()</codeph>. </p> </li> <li id="GUID-23CD56E3-603E-5415-A7CE-93218B7AF9FC"><p>Destroy the bitmap. </p> </li> </ol> <p>With no brush origin set, the tiling pattern starts at the top left corner of the window. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-B2A5D6F1-A22C-5015-945E-AFBADB2D607E" xml:space="preserve">CFbsBitmap* bitmap = new (ELeave) CFbsBitmap();
CleanupStack::PushL(bitmap);
User::LeaveIfError(bitmap-&gt;Load(KAnMbmFile,KABitmapID));
// set brush pattern and style to use the bitmap
gc.UseBrushPattern(bitmap);
gc.SetBrushStyle(CGraphicsContext::EPatternedBrush);
// draw shape filled with bitmap pattern
gc.DrawRect(rect);
gc.DiscardBrushPattern();
CleanupStack::PopAndDestroy();</codeblock> </section> <section><title>Using a bitmap patterned brush, with a set origin</title> <p>You can set the brush origin using <codeph>SetBrushOrigin()</codeph>, and tile the bitmap around this point. </p> <p>The example code is exactly the same as that in previous bitmapped brush example, except that the following line is added before the rectangle is drawn: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-2EC2ADC7-5AE0-5872-A087-BE2B949C8A7A" xml:space="preserve">...
TPoint pos(100,100);
gc.SetBrushOrigin(pos);
...</codeblock> <p>For using bitmaps, see <xref href="GUID-EAAD1719-C02C-5705-A5C3-993E36441BE6.dita">BitGDI Component</xref>. </p> </section> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-55C8C429-1BEC-5A58-94EC-DA1E51F62867.dita"><linktext>Drawing
                to a Graphics Context Tutorials</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-E3AC8F3E-9D5C-5E7D-9760-023B77C7C8A8.dita"><linktext>Drawing and Graphics Contexts</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>