<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-A24491E4-867F-4006-9798-07281553EA51" xml:lang="en"><title>Release
Notes</title><shortdesc>This library is intended for application developers for the Symbian^3
platform.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-A425EC89-28E2-4185-94DA-538E53EFF44C"><title>Major changes
between the week 03 2010 release and week 12 2010 release</title><p>Since
the week 03 2010 documentation submission to the Symbian Foundation, the following
major additions have been made:</p><ul>
<li><p>Inclusion of API reference extracted from the Symbian^3 source code.</p></li>
<li><p>Inclusion of API specifications.</p></li>
<li><p>A new <xref href="GUID-190478E6-E614-4386-9431-15672FDB88D4.dita">About
Symbian^3</xref> topic, including What's new and Porting applications from
S60 5th Edition to Symbian^3.</p></li>
<li><p>A new <xref href="GUID-AFAD9FAE-D09B-4778-8981-47A8073BC044.dita">Getting
Started</xref>, consisting of the Symbian Foundation's C++ Quick Start and
Going Beyond Hello tutorials.</p></li>
<li><p>Integration of the <xref href="GUID-A294084E-B5BB-54C6-A622-49F20E8C927B.dita">Panic
Codes Reference</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p>Addition of new topics: <xref href="GUID-620CD3E3-61C4-4643-8922-48DEA9EF0A6E.dita">Common
Email Guide</xref> and <xref href="GUID-C3919681-BB41-4CFA-812F-2D7989E952DC.dita">System
Resource Monitoring</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p>The Graphics Guide has been updated for Symbian^3. For details, see <xref href="GUID-D0C84E1D-A625-4F79-8515-399B8153727B.dita">What's New in Graphics in
Symbian^3</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p>The <xref href="GUID-94005A46-B4C6-4A30-A8E8-1B9C2D583D50.dita">Classic
UI Guide</xref> has been updated for Symbian^3. </p></li>
<li><p>All guides have been updated to refer to the Symbian platform rather
than to Symbian OS and to S60, apart from where it is necessary to refer to
past releases. </p></li>
</ul><p><b>Bug fixes</b>:</p><p>This release contains fixes for the following
bugs:</p><ul>
<li><p><xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=1892" scope="external">Change section headings in Symbian^3 product/app reference </xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=1522" scope="external">Fix up the links in the Platform security architecture page</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=1520" scope="external">Link to sample chapter of quick recipes book in SDK docs</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=394" scope="external">Remove "Using the Indexes"</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=1319" scope="external">ambiguous documentation of text-options</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=344" scope="external">Remove references to SDN and SDN++ from Symbian Developer
Library</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=1897" scope="external">Guide landing page is empty</xref></p></li>
</ul></section>
<section id="GUID-C454C6AE-8348-45C4-A374-11598B78193A"><title>Major changes
between the week 43 2009 release and week 03 2010 release</title><p><b>New
content:</b></p><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-94005A46-B4C6-4A30-A8E8-1B9C2D583D50.dita">Classic UI Guide</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-C0D38954-2FC5-4E8B-BC11-229464DCF16C.dita">High Level Internet
Protocols Guide</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-DD13AA8E-BDAD-57EC-81EC-49C8D6D30A86.dita">Short Link Services
Guide</xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-F9F53050-AAFA-4685-8C62-033E585F061B.dita">Web Guide</xref></p></li>
</ul><p>The following S60 5th Edition C++ Developer's Library 'Technology
area guides' have been integrated into the Symbian guide:</p><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-29486886-CB54-4A83-AD6D-70F971A86DFC.dita">Application
and UI frameworks</xref> is now in Classic UI Guide.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-CCE6DC36-625C-487C-9AD8-F1BF8E36080A.dita">S60 UI components</xref> is
now in Classic UI Guide.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-3E341F9F-2635-589B-A59A-B999FE7DF9BE.dita">Multimedia</xref> is
now in Multimedia Guide.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-377F7C19-C799-45CE-9ADA-4BB884B422BA.dita">Browsing and
downloading</xref> is now in Web Guide. </p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-1E158DE6-33F5-4B45-8923-28117EBAB68A.dita">Location</xref> is
now in Location Based Services (LBS).</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-AB3D07E6-83C9-4948-A13F-75A65498F444.dita">Security</xref> is
now found at the top level. </p></li>
</ul><p>The S60 Open C and Open C++ documentation has been merged into the
Symbian P.I.P.S. documentation and is now in <xref href="GUID-5072BE46-B1B4-5C3A-BF55-BEA7443E7657.dita">Generic
OS Services Guide</xref>.</p><p><b>Other changes:</b> </p><p>The Symbian Developer
Library for Application Developers is released under the <xref href="http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html" scope="external">Eclipse Public License</xref> (EPL). </p></section>
<section id="GUID-6DECC8BE-0CEB-4C47-8028-56EF53C29C7B"><title>Upcoming releases
and improvements in the Symbian Developer Library for Application Developers</title><p>See
the <xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/Docscontent/Backlog" scope="external">Documentation Content Package Backlog</xref>.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-24E1938C-E8AA-4B82-8FE5-3F35F31CCA3E"><title>Feedback</title><p>To
give feedback, please go to the <xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/bugs/enter_bug.cgi?product=Documentation%20Content" scope="external">Symbian Foundation Bugtracker</xref> (login required).</p></section>
</conbody></concept>