<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-D0C84E1D-A625-4F79-8515-399B8153727B" xml:lang="en"><title>What's New in Graphics in Symbian^3</title><shortdesc>This section describes the changes introduced in the Graphics
package in Symbian^3.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-B341632C-47E7-4A0E-B3E5-2B69FD0AB09D"><title>ScreenPlay</title><p>ScreenPlay is a new graphics architecture which enables device
creators to take advantage of improved software performance, hardware
acceleration and third party graphics engines. For more information,
see:</p><ul>
<li><xref href="GUID-D93978BE-11A3-5CE3-B110-1DEAA5AD566C.dita">The ScreenPlay
Graphics Architecture</xref></li>
<li><xref href="GUID-F64E6551-670E-5E12-8103-DE504D3EC94F.dita">The NonScreenPlay
Graphics Architecture</xref></li>

<li><xref href="GUID-859CAA08-59C9-5FD3-98DE-6BDD0D6ED50B.dita">Graphics
Composition</xref></li>
<li><xref href="GUID-EF62BF88-3687-505D-8BD7-EEDF36246E56.dita">Graphics
Hardware Acceleration</xref></li>
<li><xref href="GUID-0EBE5733-A267-5F4A-85AD-87C3ECF80731.dita">Dynamic
Resolution Switching</xref></li>


<li><xref href="GUID-9C269F45-F160-5A4B-ABF8-896D2A538E3B.dita">Advanced
Pointer Overview</xref></li>
<li><xref href="GUID-495EA1C8-E95F-54AE-B4D1-0F463003C2D7.dita">External
Surfaces Overview</xref></li>


</ul>       </section>
<section id="GUID-934FEF09-12B2-418D-B6B4-1CCD41FFD27A"><title>Khronos
APIs</title><p>For information about the supported Khronos APIs, see:</p><ul>
<li><xref href="GUID-50254C2F-57B6-58C4-911F-294EF2B79C04.dita">Khronos
API Support</xref></li>
<li><xref href="GUID-1B1C6D35-FFDF-55B3-BCE2-DD0295858E49.dita">OpenVG
Collection</xref></li>
<li><xref href="GUID-AB93B01C-B6C2-5B24-ADEF-95706584D625.dita">OpenGLES
Collection</xref></li>
<li><xref href="GUID-8C6D4350-A38D-57A1-8C8D-C777EA7E8A3E.dita">EGL Collection</xref></li>

</ul></section>

<section id="GUID-B7EEA185-4445-4875-A9B6-18EF2264FD9C"><title>Interface
breaks and deprecated functionality</title><p>On ScreenPlay, support
for direct screen access (DSA) is maintained for backward compatibility
reasons, although Symbian recommends the use of external surfaces
in preference to DSA. However, whereas on some earlier
devices, applications might work without fully conforming to the rules
of DSA, these rules are now necessarily enforced. See <xref href="GUID-3F0FCBB5-98D2-4355-96E3-2DA938DE1C16.dita">DSA Migration Guide</xref> for information about the guidelines applications must follow in
order to be able to run correctly on a ScreenPlay device.</p><p>The following functionality is deprecated in Symbian^3:</p><ul>


<li><p>Creating transparent windows using a mask and <xref href="GUID-683603DD-F3D3-3193-BEB3-8236C7DE7F79.dita"><apiname>RWindow</apiname></xref> is deprecated. See <xref href="GUID-02BD38E7-A579-5BD5-9444-4E7C14C7809A.dita">Transparent Windows</xref> for more information.</p></li>
<li><p>Backed-up windows are deprecated. See <xref href="GUID-08A6A034-5609-58B0-8EA7-943B2A937B40.dita">Displayable Windows</xref> for more information. </p></li>
</ul></section>
<section id="GUID-9B1C753E-E502-4578-A5A7-0C8CD2739C5C"><title>Guide
documentation changes</title><p>The following documentation has been added to the Windowing
collection:</p><ul>
<li><xref href="GUID-2C443E6F-BC3D-5252-8098-9F850AA88A35.dita">Window
Server Component Overview</xref></li>
<li><xref href="GUID-B1CB6374-2C2B-5D6C-9A7C-6E49D8F235B8.dita">Display
Control and Mapping in the Window Server Client</xref></li>
<li><xref href="GUID-02BD38E7-A579-5BD5-9444-4E7C14C7809A.dita">Transparent
Windows</xref></li>
<li><xref href="GUID-8DB1C618-597C-560C-95A2-C0AB2CEBB027.dita">Redraw
Drawing</xref></li>
<li><xref href="GUID-A12A66ED-2C8F-5CE6-8F3E-332B045A35B4.dita">Advanced
Pointers</xref></li>
<li><xref href="GUID-1C025957-258C-54C0-94A5-AD60C14E6D76.dita">External
Surfaces</xref></li>



<li><xref href="GUID-E29CAFA8-523D-57D2-AC1B-D6D01741550B.dita">Window
Server Internals Concepts</xref></li>
<li><xref href="GUID-85E1E45B-DD05-5B7D-84E7-9911E0A3E3CC.dita">The wsini.ini
File</xref></li>

</ul><p>The following documentation has been added to the OpenGLES
collection:</p><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-AB93B01C-B6C2-5B24-ADEF-95706584D625.dita">OpenGLES
Collection</xref></p></li>
</ul><p>The following documentation has been added to the OpenVG collection:</p><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-1B1C6D35-FFDF-55B3-BCE2-DD0295858E49.dita">OpenVG
Collection</xref></p></li>
</ul><p>The following documentation has been added to the EGL collection:</p><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-8C6D4350-A38D-57A1-8C8D-C777EA7E8A3E.dita">EGL
Collection</xref></p></li>
</ul><p>The following documentation has been updated:</p><ul>
<li><xref href="GUID-484B51EC-2209-5492-8E9C-9D792AB0DF35.dita">Graphics
and Drawing</xref></li>
<li><xref href="GUID-71DADA82-3ABC-52D2-8360-33FAEB2E5DE9.dita">The Font
and Bitmap Server Overview</xref></li>
</ul></section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-975CBC70-81E6-5FA2-80CE-88DD2ABE9595.dita"><linktext>Graphics
Guide</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>