<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-B8C3E562-EE45-47F2-BC00-F6C10ADD3026" xml:lang="en"><title>Definitions</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><table id="GUID-4D35808B-97EE-4D2F-87FC-17480BFAC0FC">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Area registry based feedback</entry>
<entry>Feedback is triggered by centralized registry, which is hosted by the
feedback system. When some area with defined feedback is touched, the feedback
is triggered by the system before any application even receives the pointer
event. <p/>For this kind of feedback it is on application’s responsibility
to add, update and remove areas to the registry according to application state.<p/> Area
registry’s main purpose is to minimize the feedback latency by processing
the pointer event faster than what would be possible from a normal GUI application.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Direct feedback</entry>
<entry>Feedback is triggered directly from the application, which receives
the pointer event.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Feedback latency</entry>
<entry>The time that it takes from the moment when user touches the screen,
until feedback is generated. This includes all the processing in touch driver
and window server, as well as the time that it takes for actually starting
the feedback.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Logical feedback type</entry>
<entry>Defines the nature of the feedback effect (e.g. “basic” or “sensitive”),
but does not tell which type of physical feedback effect (vibrator pulse,
sound effect etc.) is produced. Logical feedback type is decided by the UI
component or application, which is using Tactile Feedback Client API for producing
feedback. </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody></concept>