<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-1F7B0EB9-50E9-4C11-B620-18054596F5AD" xml:lang="en"><title>Deprecated APIs</title><shortdesc>All the deprecated APIs in Symbian^3 are listed with the
alternatives provided. These deprecated APIs will be removed from
the future Symbian platform release, so it is recommended to avoid
using these APIs.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The following table summarizes the deprecated APIs:</p>
<table id="GUID-1A133A2D-D803-4026-AF28-4A96DB25F42B-GENID-1-6-1-1-6-1-4-1-3-2">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.34*"/><colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="1.66*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.66*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>API</entry>
<entry>Affected headers and libraries</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>AVKON UI framework and the following dependant APIs:<ul>
<li><p>Phonebook Data Add Edit UI API</p></li>
<li><p>Phonebook Data Management API</p></li>
<li><p>Speed Dial Utility Control API</p></li>
<li><p>Phonebook vCard Import Export API</p></li>
<li><p>Phonebook UI Utilities API</p></li>
<li><p>Phonebook Thumbnail operation API</p></li>
<li><p>Phonebook Fetch UI API</p></li>
<li><p>Screensaver API</p></li>
<li><p>SendUI API</p></li>
<li><p>Notepad Library API</p></li>
<li><p>Connection Settings UI API</p></li>
<li><p>Landmarks UI Add_Edit API</p></li>
<li><p>Landmarks UI selector API</p></li>
<li><p>Location Center Registration API</p></li>
</ul></entry>
<entry>The <filepath>avkon.lib</filepath>, <filepath>commondialogs.lib</filepath>, and <filepath>eikcoctl.lib</filepath> libraries of AVKON UI framework
are affected by this change.<p>The following dependant libraries are
also affected by this change:</p><ul>
<li><p><filepath>pbkview.lib</filepath></p></li>
<li><p><filepath>pbkeng.lib</filepath></p></li>
<li><p><filepath>bcardeng.lib</filepath></p></li>
<li><p><filepath>spdctrl.lib</filepath></p></li>
<li><p><filepath>sendui.lib</filepath></p></li>
<li><p><filepath>npdlib.lib</filepath></p></li>
<li><p><filepath>cmmanager.lib</filepath></p></li>
<li><p><filepath>eikdlg.lib</filepath></p></li>
<li><p><filepath>commonui.lib</filepath></p></li>
<li><p><filepath>eikctl.lib</filepath></p></li>
<li><p><filepath>uiklaf.lib</filepath></p></li>
<li><p><filepath>eikdlg.lib</filepath></p></li>
<li><p><filepath>aknnotify.lib</filepath></p></li>
<li><p><filepath>lmkcommonui.lib</filepath></p></li>
</ul></entry>
<entry>AVKON UI framework and its dependant APIs have been deprecated.
This is the first step to move to Qt UI framework in the future releases.
It is recommended to start migrating all the existing applications
from AVKON to Qt, so that these applications continue to work on the
future Symbian platform releases. For more information on migrating
to Qt, refer to <xref format="html" href="http://library.forum.nokia.com/topic/Qt_for_Symbian_Developers_Library/GUID-97A34C6E-9F2B-4743-86F8-563362F7047A_cover.html" scope="external">Qt for Symbian</xref></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>KLinkLayerOpen</codeph> and <codeph>KLinkLayerClosed</codeph>  </entry>
<entry><filepath>nifvar.h</filepath> and <filepath>nifman.dll</filepath></entry>
<entry>These constants have been deprecated. The existing applications
will continue to work, but it is recommended that the new applications
use<codeph> KConnectionUp</codeph> or <codeph>KConnectionDown</codeph> constants (<filepath>es_sock.h</filepath>) to indicate the connection
status.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>KCDCurrentVersion</codeph>  and <codeph>KCDLatestVersion</codeph>  </entry>
<entry><filepath>commsdat.h</filepath>, <filepath>metadatabase.h</filepath> and <filepath>commsdat.dll</filepath>.</entry>
<entry>These constants were used to retrieve the version information
of a database schema in Comms Database. They have been deprecated
from Symbian^3 onwards as there are two database schemas in Comms
Database. To identify each of these schemas separately, use <codeph>KCDVersion1_1</codeph> and <codeph>KCDVersion1_2</codeph> instead
of the deprecated constants. The existing applications using these
deprecated constants will continue to work on Symbian^3 without any
change.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>RConnection::DataTransferredRequest()</codeph>, <codeph>RConnection::DataTransferredCancel()</codeph>, <codeph>RConnection::GetDataSentNotificationRequest()</codeph>, <codeph>RConnection::DataSentNotificationCancel()</codeph>, <codeph>RConnection::DataReceivedNotificationRequest()</codeph>, and <codeph>RConnection::DataReceivedNotificationCancel()</codeph>.</entry>
<entry><filepath>es_sock.h</filepath> and <filepath>esock.dll</filepath></entry>
<entry>All these APIs has been deprecated. To monitor data and handle
data sent/received notifications, use the <xref href="GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF.dita"><apiname>RSubConnection</apiname></xref> API instead. All the existing applications continue to work on Symbian^3
without any changes. For more information on using <xref href="GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF.dita"><apiname>RSubConnection</apiname></xref> API, refer to <xref href="GUID-61E0CD76-A2E3-5066-84A8-146EECA8ADCD.dita">Socket-Server</xref> documentation.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Sub-connection management and monitoring APIs:</p><ul>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::Stop(TSubConnectionUniqueId)</codeph></p></li>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::Stop(TSubConnectionUniqueId, TConnStopType)</codeph> </p></li>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::ProgressNotification(TSubConnectionUniqueId,
TNifProgressBuf&amp;, TRequestStatus&amp;, TUint)</codeph></p></li>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::CancelProgressNotification(TSubConnectionUniqueId)</codeph></p></li>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::Progress(TSubConnectionUniqueId, TNifProgress&amp;) </codeph></p></li>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::IsSubConnectionActiveRequest()</codeph></p></li>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::IsSubConnectionActiveCancel()</codeph></p></li>
</ul><p>Connection settings access APIs in RConnection:</p><ul>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::GetIntSetting(const TDesC&amp;, TUint32&amp;)</codeph></p></li>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::GetBoolSetting(const TDesC&amp;, TBool&amp;)</codeph></p></li>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::GetDesSetting(const TDesC&amp;, TDes8&amp;)</codeph></p></li>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::GetDesSetting(const TDesC&amp;, TDes16&amp;)</codeph></p></li>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::GetLongDesSetting(const TDesC&amp; aSettingName,
TDes&amp; aValue)</codeph></p></li>
</ul><p>System wide connection management and monitoring APIs:</p><ul>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::EnumerateConnections(TUint&amp; aCount)</codeph></p></li>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::AllInterfaceNotification(TDes8&amp; aNotification,
TRequestStatus&amp; aStatus)</codeph></p></li>
<li><p><codeph>RConnection::CancelAllInterfaceNotification()</codeph></p></li>
</ul></entry>
<entry><filepath>es_sock.h</filepath> and <filepath>esocksvr.dll</filepath></entry>
<entry><p>All the sub-connection management and monitoring APIs in
RConnection have been deprecated. Instead of these deprecated APIs,
use the following RSubConnection APIs:</p><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF.dita#GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF/GUID-7B2223D7-D08E-39D3-AF14-A15E848D1011"><apiname>RSubConnection::EventNotification(TNotificationEventBuf&amp;
aEventBuffer, TBool aGenericEventsOnly, TRequestStatus&amp; aStatus)</apiname></xref> </p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF.dita#GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF/GUID-8894D416-34DA-32F9-9CAB-095A0039D6CD"><apiname>RSubConnection::EventNotification(TNotificationEventBuf&amp;
aEventBuffer, TEventFilter aEventFilterList[], TUint aEventListLength,
TRequestStatus&amp; aStatus)</apiname></xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF.dita#GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF/GUID-ADCDEFFC-8622-3C77-91F0-2E3020745E46"><apiname>RSubConnection::CancelEventNotification()</apiname></xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF.dita#GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF/GUID-E25294DA-633B-37BC-9921-09C4822C3B7A"><apiname>RSubConnection::Stop()</apiname></xref></p></li>
</ul><p>For more information on these <xref href="GUID-0AFDA357-EE44-3788-9CAB-162B874134BF.dita"><apiname>RSubConnection</apiname></xref> APIs, refer to <xref href="GUID-4C7ABD1C-B42C-590A-AD24-7FA6C3A8D18C.dita">Registering for Sub-Connection events: Tutorial</xref></p><p>The
connection settings access APIs in <xref href="GUID-BED8A733-2ED7-31AD-A911-C1F4707C67FD.dita"><apiname>RConnection</apiname></xref> are
deprecated so you can use <xref href="GUID-5EC4B812-241B-39BF-B74D-F72260C939BE.dita#GUID-5EC4B812-241B-39BF-B74D-F72260C939BE/GUID-546B08D6-2265-3BA7-9AAF-CF39E8ABCB6F"><apiname>RConnection::GetParameters(ESock::CCommsDataObjectBase&amp;
aDataObject)</apiname></xref> to retrieve the connection settings.</p><p>The system-wide connection management APIs are deprecated so avoid
using it. Instead, use the following <xref href="GUID-55FE59B7-4FA9-3B1A-BD4C-9B7611FE75C2.dita"><apiname>RConnectionServ</apiname></xref> APIs:</p><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-55FE59B7-4FA9-3B1A-BD4C-9B7611FE75C2.dita#GUID-55FE59B7-4FA9-3B1A-BD4C-9B7611FE75C2/GUID-A2ED3E49-53F0-3BFD-8E77-DE543BAADA93"><apiname>RConnectionServ::AccessPointStatusQuery(const CConnectionServParameterBundle&amp;
aQuery, CConnectionServParameterBundle&amp; aResult, TRequestStatus&amp;
aStatus)</apiname></xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-55FE59B7-4FA9-3B1A-BD4C-9B7611FE75C2.dita#GUID-55FE59B7-4FA9-3B1A-BD4C-9B7611FE75C2/GUID-31901844-6423-3B20-86DA-58DE2443885A"><apiname>RConnectionServ::AccessPointNotification(const CConnectionServParameterBundle&amp;
aQuery, MAccessPointNotificationObserver&amp; aObserver)</apiname></xref></p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-55FE59B7-4FA9-3B1A-BD4C-9B7611FE75C2.dita#GUID-55FE59B7-4FA9-3B1A-BD4C-9B7611FE75C2/GUID-96F75179-AE3E-3CC5-9C25-63E66053D99E"><apiname>RConnectionServ::CancelAccessPointNotification()</apiname></xref></p></li>
</ul><p>For more information on how to use these APIs, refer to <xref href="GUID-AE31B2A5-40BA-5FD4-9CCA-2CDF5B00DFDC.dita">Using a Management
Plane session to receive Access Point notifications: Tutorial</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>CFbsDevice::CancelSprite()</codeph>, <codeph>CFbsDevice::HideSprite()</codeph>,<codeph>CFbsDevice::HideSprite(const TRect&amp;, const TRegion*)</codeph>, <codeph>CFbsDevice::ShowSprite(TSpriteBase*)</codeph>, <codeph>CFbsDevice::ShowSprite(TSpriteBase*, const TRect&amp;,const TRegion*)</codeph>, <codeph>CFbsScreenDevice::DrawSpriteBegin()</codeph>, <codeph>CFbsScreenDevice::DrawSpriteEnd()</codeph>, <codeph>CFbsScreenDevice::CancelSprite()</codeph>, <codeph>CFbsScreenDevice::HideSprite()</codeph>, <codeph>CFbsScreenDevice::HideSprite(const TRect&amp;,const TRegion*)</codeph>, <codeph>CFbsScreenDevice::ShowSprite(TSpriteBase*)</codeph>, and <codeph>CFbsScreenDevice::ShowSprite(TSpriteBase*, const TRect&amp;,const
TRegion*)</codeph>.</entry>
<entry><filepath>bitdev.h</filepath></entry>
<entry>These <codeph>CFbsDevice</codeph> and <codeph>CFbsScreenDevice</codeph> APIs, which were used internally by the Window Server
for implementing sprites, are deprecated from Symbian^3 onwards. </entry>
</row>
<row>

<entry>Flash Viewer Framework API</entry>
<entry><filepath>flash_ui.h</filepath> and <filepath>flash2ui.dll</filepath></entry>
<entry>This framework API is deprecated so remove all references to
it.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Browser Control API, Browser Plugin API, Download Manager Client
API, Download Manager UI API, Favourites Engine API, and Settings
API</entry>
<entry><filepath>browserengine.lib</filepath>, <filepath>browserengine.lib</filepath>, <filepath>downloadmgr.lib</filepath>, <filepath>downloadmgruilib.lib</filepath>, and <filepath>favouritesengine.lib</filepath>.</entry>
<entry>All these browser APIs are deprecated, so start using the <xref format="html" href="http://doc.qt.nokia.com/4.6/qtwebkit.html" scope="external">QTWebKit</xref> module instead. </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody></concept>