<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-03708BB2-68CF-4EFB-BE2F-C92DAD59F7F2" xml:lang="en"><title>Options
template</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The order of items in an Options menu should follow the template presented
below (in specific cases, when there are strong arguments against the order
in the template, the order can be changed.)</p>
<p>The option names listed here are generic names, not the actual texts used
in the products. The texts may even vary between applications even though
the logical item is the same.</p>
<p>Items that should appear in every full Options menu opened from the left
softkey are labeled mandatory. However, these items are not required in context
sensitive Options menus.</p>
<p>For other than the mandatory items, only the items needed in each context
shall appear in the Options menu.</p>
<p>Items specific to the context can be added among the common items, in the
places where they best fit, considering the importance and probable usage
frequency. The places where context-specific items may appear are represented
as +++ in the list.</p>
<p>Submenu titles are indicated with ? and are followed by the submenu items.</p>
<table id="GUID-21D14852-30D2-44B3-BB5E-1A200B73072D"><title>Options menu
item order</title>
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.19*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="0.61*"/><colspec colname="col3" colwidth="2.21*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Menu </entry>
<entry>item</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Active applications</p></entry>
<entry><p>Access to task swapper.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Open / Select /Change</p></entry>
<entry><p>Mandatory when the Selection key performs an Open/Select function.
Change is used in setting lists. Same as the Selection key function.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="center" nameend="col3" namest="col1"><p>+ + +</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Call now</p></entry>
<entry><p>For immediate calling when a phone number is available.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Send now</p></entry>
<entry><p>Opens a messaging editor when an address for immediate sending is
available, or is used for immediate sending when such data is available (for
example in message editor)</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Send &gt;</p></entry>
<entry><p>Open a Send list query that contains the following Send options.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Message</p></entry>
<entry><p>Send object via message.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Audio message</p></entry>
<entry><p>Send object via audio message.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>E-mail</p></entry>
<entry><p>Send object via e-mail.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>SyncML mail</p></entry>
<entry><p>Send object via SyncML mail.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Postcard</p></entry>
<entry><p>Send object via Postcard.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>MMS Upload Services</p></entry>
<entry><p>Service provider item for uploading. All MMS upload services are
displayed consecutively before local connectivity items.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Bluetooth</p></entry>
<entry><p>Send object via Bluetooth.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>IR</p></entry>
<entry><p>Send object via Infrared.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Other installed MTMs</p></entry>
<entry><p>Send objects via some other available MTM.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="center" nameend="col3" namest="col1"><p>+ + +</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Create new</p></entry>
<entry><p>Initiates the creation of a new item (for example a message in the
Messaging application or a calendar event in Calendar). When more than one
type of item can be created, a submenu may be used to select the type. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Edit item</p></entry>
<entry><p>Enables editing of the current item, for example a form, or an individual
item on a list.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Edit text &gt;</p></entry>
<entry><p>Opens a submenu for text editing options.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Copy text</p></entry>
<entry><p>Start text copying (copy mode).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Cut text</p></entry>
<entry><p>Start text cutting (copy mode)</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Copy</p></entry>
<entry><p>Copy the selected (highlighted) text.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Cut </p></entry>
<entry><p>Cut the selected (highlighted) text.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Paste</p></entry>
<entry><p>Paste text.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Delete</p></entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p>Deletes the item(s) in focus (or marked) on a list.</p></li>
<li><p>Deletes the current item being viewed.</p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="center" nameend="col3" namest="col1"><p>+ + +</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>View info (1)</p></entry>
<entry><p>View detailed information about the current item. The item is placed
in this location in applications where this is a high-priority function.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="center" nameend="col3" namest="col1"><p>+ + +</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Move</p></entry>
<entry><p>Move an item to a different location within the list or grid.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Move to folder</p></entry>
<entry><p>Move item(s) into a folder.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>New folder</p></entry>
<entry><p>Create a new folder.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="center" nameend="col3" namest="col1"><p>+ + +</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Edit list &gt;</p></entry>
<entry><p>A submenu for list editing options.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Copy item data</p></entry>
<entry><p>Copy data from a list item (for example, copy a phone number from
Phonebook's view onto Clipboard).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Mark / Unmark</p></entry>
<entry><p>Mark or unmark the current item, depending on the current state.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Mark all</p></entry>
<entry><p>Mark all items in a list.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Unmark all</p></entry>
<entry><p>Remove marks from all marked items in a list.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Rename</p></entry>
<entry><p>Rename the item in focus.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="center" nameend="col3" namest="col1"><p>+ + +</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Add to contacts &gt;</p></entry>
<entry><p>A submenu for functions used to add contact information into Phonebook.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Create new</p></entry>
<entry><p>Create a new contact item.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Update existing</p></entry>
<entry><p>Add new field(s) to an existing contact item.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Find item &gt;</p></entry>
<entry><p>A submenu for functions used to extract contact information from
text in viewers and browsers.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Phone number</p></entry>
<entry><p>Find a telephone number among text.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Email address</p></entry>
<entry><p>Find an e-mail address among text.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>URL</p></entry>
<entry><p>Find and URL among text.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="center" nameend="col3" namest="col1"><p>+ + +</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>View info (2)</p></entry>
<entry><p>View detailed information about the current item. The item is placed
in this location in applications where this is a low-priority function.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Add to Favourites</p></entry>
<entry><p>For adding a link to the current application or a document to pinboard.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Text size &gt;</p></entry>
<entry><p>Change the text size in application-specified views (see <xref href="GUID-B16A0370-F18F-4035-B3D6-ED550D8D68F9.dita">Presentation
of text</xref> for more information on content zooming). Opens a submenu with
an indicator.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Automatic (default value)</p></entry>
<entry><p>Uses the text size setting value currently set in General Settings.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Large</p></entry>
<entry><p>View text in large size. Overrides the setting value set in General
Settings.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Normal</p></entry>
<entry><p>View text in normal size. Overrides the setting value set in General
Settings.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry><p>Small</p></entry>
<entry><p>View text in small size. Overrides the setting value set in General
Settings.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Settings</p></entry>
<entry><p>Access to application settings or context-dependent settings.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Advanced</p></entry>
<entry><p>A submenu containing rarely used items.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Extra functions</p></entry>
<entry><p>For displaying extra functions provided by application interworking.
If more than one extra function is available, they are displayed in a submenu.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Writing language</p></entry>
<entry><p>Changes the input language in editors.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Help</p></entry>
<entry><p>Opens Context Sensitive Help.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><p>Exit</p></entry>
<entry><p>Mandatory. Exits the application.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody></concept>