<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-6ED556AF-080F-4CA8-9A95-F7B6DA34B0CC" xml:lang="en"><title>Zooming</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Mobile device users can zoom text in message viewers and editors, as well
as some list components.</p>
<p>Zooming can mean different things depending on the type of content:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Adjusting text size</p></li>
<li><p>Adjusting the size of all content</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Users should be able to adjust font size for text content without a strict
layout, such as e-mail. When text size is changed, the text is wrapped to
fit the width of the view. Seeing all content may require more vertical scrolling,
but the intention is to avoid the need to scroll horizontally. The number
of available text size levels may differ from application to application.</p>
<p>If the content does not allow reformatting, such as images, maps, PDF documents,
and many Web pages, zooming changes the size of all content, while preserving
its aspect ratio. Since the layout does not change, users may have to scroll
both vertically and horizontally to see all content. </p>
<p>When an application starts, the default settings for text and content size
are applied. Zooming by users is temporary, which means that the adjustments
are discarded when the application exits.</p>
</conbody></concept>