<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-D5B6519B-E902-56C3-80CF-DCEE3F8501BB" xml:lang="en"><title>MultiRead2:
Reading Multiple Resource Files with Cross-referenced Resources</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The files reproduced here are the main files contained in the examples
directory. Some extra files may be needed to run the examples, and these will
be found in the appropriate examples directory. </p>
<section><title>Download</title> <p>Click on the following link to download
the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-796658e5-d98c-4c42-a5a8-e3b9e8faa3f7.zip" scope="external">MultiRead2.zip</xref></p>Download some additional files required
by the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-89fa6105-e749-4e5f-a233-a000e3b9390b.zip" scope="external">CommonFramework</xref><p>Click: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-796658e5-d98c-4c42-a5a8-e3b9e8faa3f7.html" scope="peer">browse</xref> to view the example code. </p>View the additional
files: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-89fa6105-e749-4e5f-a233-a000e3b9390b.html" scope="peer">browse</xref>.   </section>
<section><title>Description</title> <p> <filepath>MultiRead2</filepath> shows
how to use multiple resource files with cross-referenced resources. It depends
on the resource file created for the <xref href="GUID-0552E177-B824-5E2D-A5A6-0F0694EC13EE.dita">MultiRead1</xref> and <xref href="GUID-9A1317EE-A101-5ACA-A1D4-9D07168157D0.dita">SigCheck</xref> projects. </p> <p>It
introduces a second resource file, <filepath>MultiRead2</filepath>, which
contains an LLINK to a resource defined in the <xref href="GUID-0552E177-B824-5E2D-A5A6-0F0694EC13EE.dita">MultiRead1</xref> project.
The important point to note is that the effect of introducing this second
resource file is minimal: just another #include file; and the logic in <codeph>doExampleL()</codeph> would
be identical whether the LLINK pointed to another resource in the same file
or a different file. </p> </section>
<section><title>Class Summary</title><p><xref href="GUID-3DBEDFDD-34F6-3208-B77E-16377A30A562.dita"><apiname>TResourceReaderInterprets</apiname></xref> resource
data read from a resource file</p></section>
<section><title>Build Notes</title> <p>You must have built <xref href="GUID-0552E177-B824-5E2D-A5A6-0F0694EC13EE.dita">MultiRead1</xref> and <xref href="GUID-9A1317EE-A101-5ACA-A1D4-9D07168157D0.dita">SigCheck</xref> beforehand. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>