<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-08B878D0-C0DA-46CC-ACC2-E576E5A3D937" xml:lang="en"><title>Main
pane</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The main pane is the main area of the screen where an application can display
its data.</p>
<p>There are a number of standard components for applications to use in the
main pane as listed in the following table:</p>
<table id="GUID-72C9D280-C5DB-4BD8-ACA5-B4D0BCAE8EDA"><title>Standard components
for applications to use in main pane</title>
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.34*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.66*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Pane</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>List</p></entry>
<entry><p>There are several standard list types to choose from (see <xref href="GUID-E6803961-14A0-44BD-A94E-5D8A38EA907F.dita">Lists and grids</xref> for
a detailed description of the list types).</p><p>In the landscape mode, two
row lists are most commonly stretched to be displayed in one row, which enables
displaying more items in landscape. List stretching is ON by default, but
application can decide to disable it.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Grid</p></entry>
<entry><p>Items can be presented on a two-directional grid.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Find pane</p></entry>
<entry><p>The Find pane is used together with a list, and it allows the user
to search list items alphabetically (see <xref href="GUID-F1CC06C0-0D3A-4BBC-97E1-E52D2856D7A7.dita">Find
pane</xref> for more information about the Find pane).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Status indicators</p></entry>
<entry><p>Status indicators are displayed in the Universal indicator pane.
See <xref href="GUID-0348B62D-1AE0-45F5-B06E-9EE2D83326E8.dita">Universal indicators</xref> for
more details on Status indicators.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Soft indicators</p></entry>
<entry><p>Soft indicators only exist in the Idle state. See <xref href="GUID-BA8806CC-BE7C-4927-ACF6-DA0CB6E96AAA.dita">Indicators</xref> for
more information on status indicators and soft indicators.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>Applications can also use the main pane area to freely draw whatever is
needed. In that case, however, the responsibility for the look and feel is
entirely on the application's designer. </p>
<p>For information on how to implement
your application using the Symbian application and UI frameworks, see <xref href="GUID-29486886-CB54-4A83-AD6D-70F971A86DFC.dita">Application and UI frameworks</xref>.</p>
</conbody></concept>