<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-E764B4A3-4CEE-461D-B555-C8969A62130A" xml:lang="en"><title>Status
pane items</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>A tap on: </p>
<ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-76FD2A71-E8A3-4C82-9704-3F7F6AD4DFD8.dita">Navi pane</xref>:
common items (such as tabs) should perform a function that is obvious and
clear. Common AVKON interaction does not change. However, it an application
can assign an appropriate function to its Navi pane items. It is also possible
not to assign any function where appropriate.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-314B1556-5CB5-4BCC-93C0-B22DB849D2D5.dita">Universal indicator
pane</xref>: opens a pop-up with more information on <xref href="GUID-771AF721-E2D7-41C8-BF97-5BD30D1A28AD.dita">Status
pane</xref> indicators. It always includes battery and signal indicators and
digital clock. The user can tap any of those for more information. For each
visible universal indicator, there is one row reserved in the pop-up for displaying
the icon and a description text. The description text may also inform about
the current status and/or it may be a link to a view in corresponding application.
For example, a tap on "3 new messages" opens the relevant view from the messaging
application, and "Bluetooth active" switches view to the Bluetooth settings.
Content of the row is determined by the application originating the indicator. </p></li>
<li><p>Clock in the home screen opens the Clock application.</p></li>
</ul>
<section id="GUID-76A12C4E-75B1-4C9E-B885-2450DA02B990"><title>Using
status pane items in applications</title><p>The API to use for the status
pane is the <xref format="html" href="specs/guides/Status_Pane_API_Specification/Status_Pane_API_Specification.html" scope="peer">Status Pane API</xref>. For implementation information, see <xref format="html" href="specs/guides/Status_Pane_API_Specification/Status_Pane_API_Specification.html#Status_Pane_API_Specification.topic3.2" scope="peer">Using the Status Pane API</xref>.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>