<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-0A7ADA78-D575-5A07-A52A-F8A3ACBC2746" xml:lang="en"><title>Category:
Etel Server</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Panic caused by incorrect use of the ETel Core API. For example passing
bad or contradictory values to class constructors or member functions cause
panics.</p>
<p>The client thread causing the panic is terminated.</p>
<table id="GUID-5360AE37-ED88-5E97-9BFD-BC162BE624F2">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0" colwidth="0.17*"/><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.83*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>0</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The subsession handle is not recognized by the server.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>1</p> </entry>
<entry><p>An attempt to read or write across the client-server boundary has
failed. This usually indicates that the descriptor sent is incorrectly formatted.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>2</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The message type - sent by the client - is not recognized
by the server.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>3</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Client code has attempted to re-post an asynchronous request before
the original request has completed.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>4</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The client has attempted to open a sub-session without first opening
its parent object. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>5</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The client has attempted to use a zero length descriptor.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>6</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The size field of a descriptor indicates that it contains a negative
amount of data.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>7</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Not used.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>8</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Client failed to call <codeph>Open()</codeph>.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>9</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Client failed to call <codeph>Open()</codeph>.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>10</p> </entry>
<entry><p>Client code request to access an element outside the array range.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>11</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The <codeph>Open()</codeph> function has been called twice by the
same sub-session.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>12</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The client has passed a bad phone call type.</p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>13</p> </entry>
<entry><p>The client has specified a bad name for a phone line or phone call
object.</p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody></concept>