<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-BB35DBCC-FE56-547F-BADA-9EF854691ADC" xml:lang="en"><title>S60
Platform: POP/IMAP Example</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-44678B4B-8A01-566A-B8D7-8C844F85D08E"><title>Description</title> This
C++ application shows how to retrieve e-mail from a remote mailbox to an S60
device using IMAP and POP protocols. The usual e-mail features such as sending,
editing, and deleting e-mail messages are demonstrated. The updated example
has been modified to support S60 5th Edition and touch UI. Important classes:
CMsvSession, CClientMtmRegistry, CMtmUiRegistry, CMsvOperation, CMsvEntrySelection,
CMsvEntry, CBaseMtm. For more details, click on this link : <xref href="http://www.forum.nokia.com/info/sw.nokia.com/id/72f13dbc-a032-4276-be25-48b13c24045e/S60_Platform_POP_IMAP_Example.html" scope="external">POP/IMAP Example</xref> </section>
<section id="GUID-8ABB4326-8878-5F1E-B134-52DEE44C1DD7"><title>Download</title> <p>Click
on the following link to download the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-4a81a474-9ff8-4d73-8712-89ea4b8f7e36.zip" scope="external">InternetEmai.zip</xref></p><p>Click: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-4a81a474-9ff8-4d73-8712-89ea4b8f7e36.html" scope="peer">browse</xref> to view the example code. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-866D9B76-9D9A-5EED-8220-290ECA6F2607"><title>Build</title> <p>The <xref href="GUID-3100800B-B2F7-50EF-BD4C-3C345ECCB2A5.dita">Symbian build process</xref> describes
how to build an application. </p> <p>The InternetEmail example
builds an executable called <filepath>InternetEmail.exe</filepath> in the
standard location (<filepath>\epoc32\release\winscw\</filepath> <i>&lt;build_variant&gt;</i> for
CodeWarrior). After launching the executable, depending on the emulator you
are using, you may need to task away from the app launcher/shell screen to
view the console. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-B1AE9903-AACC-4386-97DA-AE165C2C9B7F"><title>See also</title> <p> <xref href="GUID-5B43ED43-21B4-54C6-8637-76554769E6FE.dita">POP3 MTM Overview</xref>  </p> <p> <xref href="GUID-4F703F85-080F-5B77-B94D-5449764828F3.dita">SMTP MTM Overview</xref>  </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>