<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-842D8557-076B-4A6E-B823-81164368FD86" xml:lang="en"><title>Disabling
and enabling feedback</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-06A4B881-0D03-4AB0-A392-1732F04E367A"><title>Disabling and
enabling feedback for your application</title><p>If you need to disable tactile
feedback for any reason (and then possibly re-enable it later), use the function <xref href="jar:GUID-759FBC7F-5384-4487-8457-A8D4B76F6AA6.jar!/html/classMTouchFeedback.html#68dc5cb09c94b8c42e50e2043249b4c4" format="application/java-archive"><codeph>SetFeedbackEnabledForThisApp</codeph></xref>. </p><p>You can also use an <xref href="jar:GUID-759FBC7F-5384-4487-8457-A8D4B76F6AA6.jar!/html/classMTouchFeedback.html#f79365f3d12d54496715be253759dec6" format="application/java-archive">overloaded version</xref> of the function for disabling only audio or vibration
based feedback.</p><p>Feedback may need to be disabled for example during
video recording in camera applications, because otherwise device vibration
sounds may be recorded along the video clip.</p><note><p>You can and are recommended
to use the API normally for area registry updates even when feedback is disabled.
This way feedback can be turned on successfully even if there was a layout
or view change while feedback was disabled. </p><p>The only exceptions to
this are those applications which will never enable the feedback again (for
example, in some games you might do this if you don’t want feedback, or use
the device vibration for effects in your game).</p></note><p>Any application
can only disable the feedback for itself, which means this API provides no
means for globally disabling feedback. </p><p>The user can still disable all
the feedback by changing device feedback settings. Moreover, feedback can
be globally disabled by the feedback system for e.g. during ongoing telephone
calls (this depends on the device configuration).</p></section>
<section id="GUID-CB48CD7D-9577-47A7-82D4-910960E6B140"><title>Disabling and
enabling feedback for a control</title><p>Use the function <xref href="jar:GUID-759FBC7F-5384-4487-8457-A8D4B76F6AA6.jar!/html/classMTouchFeedback.html#3430455447f3294fde61a91c545c7847" format="application/java-archive"><codeph>EnableFeedbackForControl</codeph></xref> to disable and enable feedback
for a control.</p><p>You can also use an <xref href="jar:GUID-759FBC7F-5384-4487-8457-A8D4B76F6AA6.jar!/html/classMTouchFeedback.html#087da56921ef7f5deca103ad568efa8d" format="application/java-archive">overloaded version</xref> of this function to disable or enable only audio
or vibration based feedback.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>