<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-9F90A2F0-9C76-4871-A766-D1AE0FC42C08" xml:lang="en"><title>Defining localizable registration information</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>You need to register your
applications to make them visible to the application menu and to provide
other information to the underlying system. To register, you need
to provide a <xref href="GUID-BF1AAA0D-DF2F-4E1D-A0D2-F419BD32F97A.dita">registration resource file</xref> that contains the non-localized
information for your application. You also need to provide the localizable
registration information. The registration resource file is compiled
during the build process and included in the <parmname>.pkg</parmname> file used to make the  file used to make the <parmname>sis</parmname> installation file.</p>


<p>Localizable registration information is defined in a <parmname>LOCALISABLE_APP_INFO</parmname> resource statement, which may be
in a separate file or in the resource file for the GUI resources.
For information on available options for where you can place this
resource statement, see <b>Symbian^3 Tools Guide &gt; Building</b>.</p>
<p>To define the localizable registration information:</p>
<ol>
<li id="GUID-A5E13549-C926-45ED-A081-165742AAF157"><p>Determine
the requirements of your application, including deciding on whether
the resource statement should be in its own file or part of the GUI
resource file.</p></li>
<li id="GUID-B8106EC5-BDA0-4F59-B943-9B63895347EE"><p>Create
a <parmname>LOCALISABLE_APP_INFO</parmname> resource. The data structure
is declared in the <parmname>appinfo.rh</parmname> file in the <parmname>./epoc32/include</parmname> folder, as is the <parmname>CAPTION_AND_ICON_INFO</parmname> structure used in the resource. The syntax is as follows:</p>
<itemgroup>
<codeblock id="GUID-4A202ECA-380D-4FE2-AE41-3D1035F3FF7A" xml:space="preserve">RESOURCE  LOCALISABLE_APP_INFO r_name36
    {
	   short_caption = "";
	   CAPTION_AND_ICON_INFO
         {
         caption = "";
         number_of_icons =0;
	   	   icon_file = "";
	       };
	   view_list[]; // VIEW_DATA
	   group_name(KAppMaxGroupName) = "";
	   }</codeblock>
<p>where</p>
<ul>
<li><p><parmname>r_name36</parmname> is the resource name
that uniquely identifies the RESOURCE statement in the application,
and is used in the <xref href="GUID-BF1AAA0D-DF2F-4E1D-A0D2-F419BD32F97A.dita">registration resource file</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p><parmname>short_caption</parmname> indicates a shortened
version of the caption used by some UIs when screen space is limited.</p>
</li>
<li><p><parmname>caption</parmname> indicates the caption
used for the application on the grid and list menu.</p></li>
<li><p><parmname>number_of_icons</parmname> indicates the
number of icons used for the application in the menu.</p></li>
<li><p><parmname>icon_file</parmname> indicates the name
of the file that contains the icon, including the path but not the
drive name.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>For information on Localisable icon, see <b>Symbian^3 Tools
Guide &gt; Building</b>.</p>
</itemgroup>
</li>
<li id="GUID-1F9CBCC9-B366-43E8-9ADB-E4AB6A255181"><p>Add
the resource name of this resource to the <parmname>localisable_resource_id</parmname> in the registration resource file.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>For a commented example, see <xref href="GUID-6AD1DA34-EA3D-4EC9-A667-390507B4D6CB.dita">helloworldbasic.rss</xref>.</p>
</conbody></concept>