<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-6067DF61-D32F-4029-ADCD-9E69CA564212" xml:lang="en"><title>Key
presses</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>A key press is a press and release of a key (down and up).</p>
<p>Typically, the primary action of the key is performed when the key is pressed
down, already before the key is released (there may be exceptions to this
rule; see <xref href="GUID-26435FE1-D912-4AA2-96EE-82B35DA231E6.dita">Typical functions
of the standard keys</xref> for an example).</p>
<p>Some functions depend on the length of the key press:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>In a short press, the key is held down for less than 0.6 seconds (please
note that this time-out value may depend on the product implementation). If
the key is held down longer, the result is a long key press.</p></li>
<li><p>If the pressed key (in the given context) has functions for both a
short and long press, the short key press action is performed first at the
moment when the key is pressed down. If the key press is long, then the long
key press action is performed. In the case of the Home / Menu key and the
Edit key, the interaction is different, causing the action on the key release
event. </p></li>
<li><p>Certain keys, possibly in certain contexts only, may perform key repeat.
Key repeat starts after the long key press time-out when the key is continuously
being held down, and the associated function is performed according to the
key repeat frequency. For example, in scrolling within lists and text editors,
these frequencies are by default 6 times/second for vertical and 10 times/second
for horizontal scrolling (the repeat frequency may be product or application
specific). </p></li>
<li><p>Long key press actions and key repeat actions are not defined at the
same time; only one can occur in the given context. </p></li>
<li><p>The primary key press action should not be conflicting with the long
key press action or key repeat action.</p></li>
</ul>
<note> With certain input hardware (for example, Roller), long
key presses and key repeat may not be possible. The long key press actions
and key repeat actions should be designed so that this does not cause harm:
the long key press must never be the only way to perform a function</note>
</conbody></concept>