<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-23A60DE7-B72D-41BD-9F1E-882D31A7E3C7" xml:lang="en"><title>Required resource file statements</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>As noted in <xref href="GUID-EC49B54F-7724-433B-BD7F-201DE3B7DAA6.dita">Resource file structure</xref>, if the <parmname>NAME</parmname> is given, it must be the
first statement in the resource file.</p>
<p>After the <parmname>NAME</parmname> statement, resource files
must begin with the following three <parmname>RESOURCE</parmname> statements: </p>
<ul>
<li><p><parmname>RESOURCE RSS_SIGNATURE</parmname></p>
</li>
<li><p><parmname>RESOURCE TBUF</parmname></p></li>
<li><p><parmname>RESOURCE TBUF RESOURCE EIK_APP_INFO</parmname></p></li>
</ul>
<section id="GUID-4283E4EE-4553-4684-B19E-E22BA3248A72"><title>RESOURCE
RSS_SIGNATURE</title>
<p>The <parmname>RSS_SIGNATURE</parmname> resource is used to declare
the version number of the resource file. Leave this blank. The syntax
is as follows:</p>
<codeblock id="GUID-AA3B4D8C-55DA-4328-82D9-42F1A7BD18F6" xml:space="preserve">RESOURCE RSS_SIGNATURE
    {
    signature = value
    }</codeblock>
<p>where signature is a <parmname>LONG</parmname> value.</p>
<p>By default the signature is set to 0.</p>
<p>For an example, see <xref href="GUID-6AD1DA34-EA3D-4EC9-A667-390507B4D6CB.dita">helloworldbasic.rss</xref>.</p>
<p>For more information on <codeph>RSS_STRUCTURE</codeph>, see <xref href="jar:GUID-35228542-8C95-4849-A73F-2B4F082F0C44.jar!/sdk/doc_source/reference/reference-resource/bafl/BA_RSS_SIGNATUREStruct.html#BA_RSS_SIGNATURE" format="application/java-archive">BA_RSS_SIGNATURE</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="GUID-CB1C2A65-73EA-4130-923C-AABA2878D93F"><title>RESOURCE
TBUF</title>
<p>The <parmname>TBUF</parmname> resource may be used to declare
a file name for use by the document class if it is stated that the <parmname>StoreL</parmname> and <parmname>RestoreL</parmname> of the document
class is called. Otherwise, it may be left blank. The syntax is as
follows:</p>
<codeblock id="GUID-79FD4FE0-2D55-4090-B342-FDFA288DC0A5" xml:space="preserve">RESOURCE TBUF
     {
     buf="NAME";
     }</codeblock>
<p>where <parmname>buf</parmname> is one non-zero terminating string.</p>
<p>For an example, see <xref href="GUID-6AD1DA34-EA3D-4EC9-A667-390507B4D6CB.dita">helloworldbasic.rss</xref>.</p>
<note>
<p>The TBUF structure is declared in <parmname>badef.rh</parmname>, which is included in the <parmname>uikon.rh</parmname> file. For
more information on the TBUF resource, see  <xref href="jar:GUID-35228542-8C95-4849-A73F-2B4F082F0C44.jar!/sdk/doc_source/reference/reference-resource/bafl/TBUFStruct.html#TBUF" format="application/java-archive"><parmname>TBUF</parmname></xref>.</p>
</note>
</section>
<section id="GUID-3687D483-9834-401B-B389-6C615B60AB87"><title>RESOURCE
EIK_APP_INFO</title>
<p>The <xref href="jar:GUID-35228542-8C95-4849-A73F-2B4F082F0C44.jar!/sdk/doc_source/reference/reference-resource/uikon/EIK_APP_INFO.html#EIK_APP_INFO" format="application/java-archive"><parmname>EIK_APP_INFO</parmname></xref> resource defines the
objects used in the application GUI. </p>
<note>
<p>Not all possible objects need to be declared. </p>
</note>
<p>The syntax is as follows:</p>
<codeblock id="GUID-7930019A-52B6-449F-861C-81EE003A2DB2" xml:space="preserve">RESOURCE EIK_APP_INFO
    {
    menubar = value2;
    cba = value5;
    status_pane = value6;
    }</codeblock>
<p>where:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><parmname>menubar</parmname> defines the menubar
resource.</p></li>
<li><p><parmname>cba</parmname> defines the softkeys resource.</p>
</li>
<li><p><parmname>status_pane</parmname> defines the status
pane resource.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>All values refer to resources defined either in the resource
file or in a generated resource header file (<parmname>.rsg</parmname>) included in the resource file. </p>
<note>
<p>If an element is not defined, then it is not used. For example:</p>
</note>
<codeblock id="GUID-52146026-2265-43B2-BD2D-B3589CA7E9A9" xml:space="preserve">RESOURCE EIK_APP_INFO
    {
    menubar=r_name4;
    cba=R_AVKON_SOFTKEYS_OPTIONS_EXIT;
    }</codeblock>
<p>sets the application to use the menu bar defined by the <parmname>RESOURCE</parmname> statement with the name<parmname>r_name4</parmname>, and creates the softkey options <parmname>Options</parmname> and <parmname>Exit</parmname> in the control button area. </p>
<p>For an example, see <xref href="GUID-6AD1DA34-EA3D-4EC9-A667-390507B4D6CB.dita">helloworldbasic.rss</xref>.</p>
<p>For more information on the control button area softkeys provided
by the Symbian platform, see <xref href="GUID-CBB00F6A-CBA7-4872-B0A1-A86A863725F5.dita">Precompiled resource values available from the Symbian platform</xref>. </p>
</section>
</conbody></concept>