<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2004, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<concept id="GUID-6F1ED7D0-5F41-4587-89AA-8DDE7AEC916F" xml:lang="en"><title>What's
new in Symbian^3</title>
<shortdesc>Symbian^3 introduces a lot of new features that enhance communication,
connectivity, multimedia, graphics, security and the overall usability of
Symbian devices. These features benefit operators, application developers
and device creators by making it easier to create feature-rich devices and
applications.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords></keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>If you are moving from a older version of Symbian platform to Symbian^3,
see <xref href="GUID-BA0A115B-068C-4257-9489-DF35DF633AD2.dita">Porting applications
to Symbian^3</xref>.</p>
<table id="GUID-2FD9A877-1A75-4ADD-8B9A-B2FA4A9EB7C4-GENID-1-4-1-1-5-1-3-2">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.42*"/><colspec colname="col2"
colwidth="1.58*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Technology Domain</entry>
<entry>New Features</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Data Communications</entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p><b>FreeWay or Three Plane Comms Architecture:</b> The Symbian platform
now supports a new IP networking architecture. The new architecture significantly
improves data flow performance and makes it easier for third-party developers
to integrate new technologies, for example firewalls and hotspot authenticators.
It also implements automatic roaming between different access points, for
example WLAN and GPRS. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-B7A40638-BA80-5175-B23D-2F3964C274A0.dita">Goals
of the Comms Architecture</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p><b>One-Click Connectivity (OCC):</b> The Symbian platform now provides
a new way of managing data connections on the Symbian platform. OCC builds
on the existing Application Level Roaming (ALR) solution. This feature makes
the user's interaction with "connecting" and "select access point" dialogs
significantly simple and easier. </p> </li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Device Connectivity</entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p><b>USB On-The-Go (OTG):</b> The Symbian platform now supports the On-The-Go
(OTG) supplement to the USB 2.0 Specification, Revision 1.3. This enables
support for USB mass storage and audio devices on a Symbian device. </p></li>
<li><p><b>MTP Improvements:</b> The Symbian MTP implementation now supports
Windows 7, MTP over Bluetooth, Ethernet RNDIS and also new content formats.</p></li>
<li><p><b>AVRCP (Audio/Video Remote Control Profile) v1.4 Support:</b> A Symbian
device user can now see music track names and browse playlists directly from
the screen of a AVRCP v1.4 enabled Bluetooth headset or remote control.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Centralized AT-command Handling:</b> The Symbian platform now enables
all AT commands to be handled using the same mechanism regardless of the connection
type. For more information, refer to the <b>AT Extension Plug-in API</b>.</p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Device Management</entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p><b>Support for Open Mobile Alliance (OMA) Management Objects (MO):</b> The
Symbian platform now supports OMA MO like Software Component Management Object
(SCOMO) v1.0, Device Capability Management Object (DCMO) v1.0 and Connectivity
Management Object (ConnMO). It also supports Nokia Standard Streaming MO.
Some enhancements have been made to Browser MO and Email MO.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Other Device Management Enhancements:</b> The Symbian platform now
provides an improved device Lock with security and an enhanced firmware update
installation experience.</p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Location</entry>
<entry align="justify"><ul>
<li><p><b>Landmark-based URL Parser:</b> The Symbian platform now supports
a parser that converts between landmark objects and URLs. The parser supports
a URL format that is compliant with Ovi Maps. For more information, see <xref
href="GUID-5809B26D-9AF9-394A-8FA6-6BB199DC6342.dita"><apiname>CPosLandmarkParser</apiname></xref>.</p></li>
<li><p><b>New Management Object (MO) for A-GPS:</b>  The Symbian platform
now provides an enhancement to Secure User Plane Location (SUPL) now allows
the service provider to provide two access points for a SUPL server in the
MO. This improves the system stability because it acts as a fallback mechanism
in case one of the access points is unavailable.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Support for Application Processor Engine (APE) Centric Location
Architecture:</b> Symbian devices can now use the new architecture based on
the APE that offers standardized session IDs on network privacy and classes
that use the SUPL. The architecture converges technology from OS, middleware
and application software layers.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Support for Location Based Services (LBS) SUPL Positioning Module
(PSY):</b> The Symbian platform now enables the LBS SUPL PSY to allow GPS-enabled
devices to handle network-based SUPL location requests. This includes Cell
ID based positioning and assistance data exchange as part of SUPL v2.0.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Support for GPSCost5.0D and GPSCost4.0D GPS chipsets:</b> The Symbian
platform now uses the APE-centric architecture to support GPSCost5.0D and
GPSCost4.0D chipsets. A new A-GPS Nokia Positioning Engine (NPE) integration
module replaces the OS LBS subsystem reference A-GPS version.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Support for LBS SUPL Radio Resource LCS Protocol (RRLP):</b> The
Symbian platform now uses the APE-centric architecture to support NPE and
RRLP on GPS-enabled device.</p></li>
<li><p><b>SUPL 2.0 Trigger Support:</b> The Symbian platform now provides
SUPL 2.0 trigger support that allows the requester to receive location updates
periodically, which is both network and device initiated.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Location-based Triggering Enhancements:</b> The Symbian platform
now includes key enhancements that enable integration with an Context framework
to develop plug-ins and increase support for total and active triggers. An
enhanced, dedicated common gateway interface enables the client to provide
multiple CGIs to create a trigger, which is fired on successful matching with
at least one CGI.</p></li>
<li><p>Enhanced Location Acquisition API to support <codeph>LocationKnownPositionArea</codeph>.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Here and Now:</b> The Symbian platform now includes Here and now
that offers easy-to-use Web services related to the user's current location.
Here and now allows the user to check the local weather and get other topical
information while on the move.</p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Multimedia</entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p><b>Mobile TV DVB-H Receiver HAI:</b> Mobile TV Receiver is a small
internal system but does so much more than traditional TV. It is broadcasted
in a multi-grounded environment with high speed by using low battery power
and low memory usage.</p></li>
<li><p><b>OpenMAX IL:</b> OpenMAX IL is a low-level interface used in mobile
devices that allows the Multimedia Device Framework (MDF) to load, control,
connect and unload audio, video and imaging components..</p></li>
<li><p><b>Thin Adaptation of A3F DevSound:</b> The A3F DevSound is one of
the key component in the Sound Device collection that provides access to the
hardware accelerator in audio technology. For more information, see <xref
href="GUID-170A1D9C-12CB-502A-BCB3-9E2AEBB207FA.dita">A3F DevSound Component</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Image Processor library:</b> The Image Processor is an independent
and high-level API and framework which is developed for mobile imaging. The
Image Processor has some pluggable advanced image editing libraries to perform
the Panoramic Stitching function and the Speed View function. For more information,
see <xref href="GUID-042868E6-88BF-5797-BB53-8E34283DCF16.dita">Image Processor
Library</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Camera API Extensions:</b> The Camera API is extended to support
the features such as background processing, continuous digital zooming, time
nudge image capturing and automatic aperture setting. For more information,
see <xref href="GUID-BDB622BF-1CFA-5F1C-81FB-5579C8599689.dita">Camera Library</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Camera Support for Video Encoding:</b> The Camera supports mobile
device to capture video frames which are encoded in the H264 format. For more
information, see <xref href="GUID-D038D77F-A6B8-5A18-8978-4981AE8D0F35.dita">Using
the Encoded H264 Video Frames to Capture Video</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Video Playback from Non-user Interface Thread:</b> Media Client
Video Display is a standalone library used by the Video Client library to
support video playback. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-17273087-B962-5E8A-8715-055C8BF34A5D.dita">Media
Client Video Display Library</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Video Subtitle CRP:</b> Displays artwork on a video window using
the Video Subtitle CRP component. The Subtitle Graphic library displays subtitles
artwork on the screen through its interaction with Client Process, Controller
Process and WServ Process. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-412CB101-A92C-54E1-9518-79E94DD40A08.dita">Video
Subtitle CRP Component</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p><b>True Pause in Audio Playback:</b> In the audio playback request
the true pause feature is implemented to stop the audio data at the physical
sound device without stopping the buffer traffic. For more information, see <xref
href="GUID-609A4E83-F074-5A5D-A0DF-A95A7CDC8D2C.dita">Pausing and Resuming
Audio Play</xref>. </p></li>
<li><p><b>Global Surface Updates:</b> The Video Render component is extended
to support the global surface updates. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-E56EB25C-9B94-5486-9492-5151FDF79B6C.dita">Global
Surface Updates</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Metadata Utility Library:</b> The Metadata Utility library belongs
to the Metadata Utility Framework (MUF) component that provides fast metadata
access to audio, video and image media files.</p></li>
<li><p><b>UI Patterns or Thumbnails Enhancement:</b> This is a Multimedia
specific pattern enhancement, which includes many UI (User Interface) features,
listed below:</p><ul>
<li><p>Multiple customized Home Screens with 6 different widget enabled screens. </p></li>
<li><p>Pinch zoom, kinetic scrolling and single-click features.</p></li>
<li><p>Good screen view with a new UI theme, and renewed icons.</p></li>
<li><p>Hardware acceleration with fast and responsive UI that creates new
transition effects.</p></li>
<li><p>Multitasking with Teleport visual task swapper.</p></li>
<li><p>Intelligent slide functionality for Hybrid touch and QWERTY slider
devices. Video Graphics Array (VGA) Touch supports for VGA QWERTY mono blocks.</p></li>
<li><p>VGA Touch helps to control Music player.</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p><b>Mobile TV:</b> Mobile TV uses DVB-H receiver to consume broadcast
digital mobile television. The Symbian platform provides fast and easy access
to all videos and TV media content. One key press opens videos and TV application
suite, and user scrolls and selects the desired video functionality. This
media experience is built with major components such as Videos and TV, video
player and Mobile TV. Videos and TV support high quality video up to 720 per
resolution at 12 Mbps and 30 frames per second.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Image Viewer Application:</b> The Image Viewer application is used
when the client opens an image file for viewing. File Manager, Messaging,
Camcorder and Browser S60 components use the Image Viewer application. It
supports Extended ICL JPEG API, which enables a faster and less memory-consuming
way to rotate and zoom images.</p></li>
<li><p> <b>FM Radio:</b> The FM Radio application is used to listen FM radio
broadcast over the air. FM radio broadcast is a free service. </p></li>
<li><p><b>Video Sharing:</b> Using the video sharing service, both call users
can start sharing their device live camera view or pre-recorded video clip
during a normal circuit switched (CS) voice call. The video sharing feature
allows the user to upgrade and downgrade their call with one-way video at
times of need. The video sharing application uses the Multimedia Comms Engine
API. </p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Multimedia Applications</entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p><b>High-Definition Multimedia Interface (HDMI):</b> The Symbian platform
now supports HDMI technology. HDMI is supported as an external accessory for
audio and video playback for a great television playback experience. It provides
improved data performance and is ideal for streaming high definition audio
and video. The 720p resolution is supported in still image and video viewing.
5+1 channel audio is also supported.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Home Music Widgets:</b> The Symbian platform now provides music
information through Home Screen Music Widgets. The Home Music Widgets controls
from the Home Screen menu system enables to play and pause the playing track.
The Music Widget supports the Radio Player and includes the Music Suite Matrix
Menu. This menu is configured through XML and by default supports to launch
the functionality listed below:</p><ul>
<li><p>The last played song</p></li>
<li><p>The music collection view</p></li>
<li><p>A music shop, or to open the FM radio</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p><b>Fusion Player Application:</b> The Symbian platform now introduces
the Fusion Player, which replaces the existing Media Player and Video Center
applications. It enables access to both online video services and locally
stored videos. If DVB-H device is available, live TV viewing is also possible.
The main features supported by the Fusion player application are as follows:</p><ul>
<li><p>To browse stored videos and to see metadata features of the video,
such as title, thumbnail DRM info, size or play-time.</p></li>
<li><p>To check videos that are pre-installed with the device.</p></li>
<li><p>To play stored video file in the device.</p></li>
</ul></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>OS Base Services </entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p><b>Writable Data Paging (WDP):</b> The Symbian platform now supports
WDP. This enables efficient use of memory and allows multiple applications
to run at the same time without physically adding more RAM to the hardware.
This leads to a more responsive system when switching between a number of
running applications.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Symmetric multiprocessor (SMP):</b> The Symbian platform now supports
SMP for multi-core processors, such as the ARM Cortex A9. This allows device
integrators to prototype and prove ARM-based SMP platforms.</p> </li>
<li><p><b>64-bit file server:</b> The Symbian platform now supports files
larger than 2 GB.</p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Productivity</entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p><b>Enhanced Calendar UI Architecture:</b> Calendar UI architecture
has changed to improve flexibility of calendar for regional, religious, custom-tailors
and xSP calendar service needs. Multiple storages are also supported. For
more information, see <xref href="GUID-00631ED2-1B7F-5FC4-9E81-4B6DF7946631.dita">Calendar
Guide</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p><b>CalDAV Protocol:</b> Calendar application now supports the CalDAV
Protocol, which is an open calendar synchronization standard contributed by
SUN Microsystems. This enables a user to access scheduling information on
remote servers.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Enhanced Contacts Application:</b> The Contacts application in this
release includes the following changes:</p><ul>
<li><p>Integration with social media.</p></li>
<li><p>Support for Remote Contacts Lookup, for example, from post-installed
Mail for Exchange account.</p></li>
<li><p>Virtual Phonebook API (supports getting access to the user’s own contact
card).</p></li>
<li><p>Own contact card.</p></li>
</ul><?Pub Caret?></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Runtimes </entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p>The Symbian platform now supports the Open Source based Java MIDP 2.1.</p></li>
<li><p>The Symbian platform now supports Browser Application v7.2 (with Web
Run Time 7.2) that includes the following features:</p><ul>
<li><p>Browser Control</p></li>
<li><p>Browser core features</p></li>
<li><p>Browser Customization</p></li>
<li><p>Browser plug-ins</p></li>
<li><p>Browser with touch screen</p></li>
<li><p>Content Download</p></li>
<li><p>URI Schemes</p></li>
<li><p>Display Resolution Optimizations</p></li>
<li><p>Optical Finger Navigation (OFN)</p></li>
<li><p>FlashLite 3.1</p></li>
<li><p>Search Client Integration</p></li>
<li><p>Expanding Language and Character Set Support</p></li>
<li><p>Improved Security Prompting</p></li>
<li><p>Updated Platform Service APIs</p></li>
<li><p>Visual Task Swapper Support</p></li>
<li><p>Performance Optimizations</p></li>
<li><p>Multi-touch/pinch zooming</p></li>
</ul></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Security</entry>
<entry>The Symbian platform now provides an enhanced Security subsystem that
enables device creators to integrate hardware acceleration modules, which
improves the performance of cryptographic algorithms. This is particularly
valuable in intensive real-time use-cases, such as streaming audio or video
over a secure link, where bulk data needs to be encrypted and decrypted.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>User Interface</entry>
<entry><ul>
<li><p><b>ScreenPlay, also known as the New Graphics Architecture (NGA):</b> This
new graphics architecture enables device creators to take advantage of improved
software performance, hardware acceleration and third party graphics engines.
It makes it possible to combine UI components, graphics and video to create
highly innovative UIs. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-D93978BE-11A3-5CE3-B110-1DEAA5AD566C.dita">The
ScreenPlay Graphics Architecture</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Multi-Touch Support:</b> The ScreenPlay version of the Window Server
has been extended to support multiple advanced pointers, with support for
proximity and pressure. The emulator now also supports multiple advanced pointers.
For more information, see <xref href="GUID-A12A66ED-2C8F-5CE6-8F3E-332B045A35B4.dita">Advanced
Pointers</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p><b>Enhanced Touch UI:</b> The touch UI includes the following improvements:</p><ul>
<li><p>Multi-page Home Screen enables the user to navigate between widgets
with a simple flick gesture</p></li>
<li><p>Capacitive multi-touch events are supported.</p></li>
<li><p>Tactile Feedback utilizes advanced haptics effects.</p></li>
</ul></li>
</ul><p>For more information about the new features in Graphics, see <xref
href="GUID-D0C84E1D-A625-4F79-8515-399B8153727B.dita">What's New in Graphics
in Symbian^3</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody>
<related-links>
<linklist>
<link href="GUID-AB69D251-7635-4325-BBCE-92F7AFC86DC2.dita"><linktext>New
C++ APIs in Symbian^3</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-BA0A115B-068C-4257-9489-DF35DF633AD2.dita"><linktext>Porting
applications to Symbian^3</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-13987218-9427-455E-AC77-ADE6B0E9CD7E.dita"><linktext>Introduction
to Symbian^3</linktext></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000019598?>
