<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-A2F691C8-9525-4028-BF82-70E9D50630C6" xml:lang="en"><title>Prompting
the User to Select a Destination Network</title><shortdesc>If there is no connection specified in the connection setup and
no default connection has been defined, your application can
prompt the user to select the connection.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context id="GUID-0577782B-4D55-42BF-8028-8531DF343265">       <p>To prompt
the user select the destination network:</p>     </context>
<steps id="GUID-4DD07DEC-6017-4237-BE46-1D69E5FBD744-GENID-1-10-1-16-1-1-7-1-5-1-3-2">
<step id="GUID-9A69E5AD-E938-4092-A8C2-CB65C37C8962-GENID-1-10-1-16-1-1-7-1-5-1-3-2-1"><cmd>Start the connection
with <xref href="GUID-BED8A733-2ED7-31AD-A911-C1F4707C67FD.dita#GUID-BED8A733-2ED7-31AD-A911-C1F4707C67FD/GUID-A299EA7A-29FD-30B4-A077-762200433627"><apiname>RConnection::Start(ECommDbDialogPrefPrompt)</apiname></xref>.  RConnection
handle is returned to the application. </cmd>
</step>
<step id="GUID-5E21239D-0A4F-43A1-A51A-7E9F5863D9B1"><cmd>The user makes a selection.  A destination network is the preferred
selection, but the user can also select a specific access point with this
dialog. </cmd>
</step>
<step id="GUID-DA2AF32D-AECD-406A-82D0-88556A6FE649"><cmd>Link layer is now ready for the application.</cmd>
</step>
<step id="GUID-27736BF6-FDD6-4426-ADFA-65EBD73BF86D"><cmd>Send <xref href="GUID-12D64410-F872-3BBD-9B95-CAF939ED56F6.dita"><apiname>NewL(RConnection handle, MMobilityProtocolResp()</apiname></xref>.
 The application can now use the mobility API, but if the user selected an
access point this has no meaning, because roaming cannot be used.  For information
on how to start the connection through a destination network, see Starting
the connection through the destination network. </cmd>
</step>
</steps>
<example><codeblock xml:space="preserve">RSocketServ ss;

// Connect to ESOCK
ss.Connect();

// Open an RConnection object.  Note that you must provide an RSocketServ object
RConnection conn;
conn.Open( ss );

// Create overrides
TCommDbConnPref prefs;
prefs.SetDialogPreference( ECommDbDialogPrefPrompt );

// Start an Outgoing Connection with overrides
conn.Start( prefs );</codeblock></example>
</taskbody></task>