<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-387DB01C-EA48-5A10-A960-9706F3D2D0B1" xml:lang="en"><title>Activating
an Alarm on Given Days</title><shortdesc>This tutorial explains the steps required to activate an alarm
that expires, or goes OFF on one or more days of the week. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section><title>Introduction</title> <p>The <codeph>TASShdAlarm</codeph> class
provides functions that enable an alarm to repeat on specified days of the
week. This alarm is known as a <i>Daily On Given Days</i> alarm. The alarm
can be repeated weekly on a single day or on multiple days. The alarms can
also be repeated at the same time on every specified day. </p> <p>If the user
changes the system date or time, the alarm expires once. Unlike a <i>Repeat
Once</i> alarm, a <i>Daily On Given Days</i> alarm is not deleted but rescheduled
for the next available expiry time. </p> </section>
<section><title>Procedure</title> <p>Follow the steps given below to create
a <i>Daily On Given Days</i> alarm that is active on Monday and Wednesday
of every week: </p> <ol id="GUID-55067C23-0A8E-5EC8-A029-8B2045BDAFC4">
<li id="GUID-C189432B-4468-56D1-B547-D5A9DBFCF998"><p>Create an alarm with
the <codeph>TASShdAlarm</codeph> class. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-AA3EA741-F3AB-5A4D-B279-AA2C053D7313"><p>Use the<codeph>SetAlarmDays()</codeph> API
to specify the required days. <codeph>EAlarmDayMonday</codeph> and <codeph>EAlarmDayWednesday</codeph> are
the parameters to specify that the alarm must repeat on Monday and Wednesday
as shown in the code fragment. </p> <p> <b>NOTE</b>: <xref href="GUID-1AA25731-023C-315B-8047-8FBFEEF71712.dita"><apiname>SetAlarmDays()</apiname></xref> must
be specifically used for <codeph>EAlarmRepeatDefinitionRepeatDailyOnGivenDays</codeph> repeat
definition only. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-81AC5FBA-A003-5196-B692-B53632467F01"><p>Use <codeph>RASCliSession</codeph> to
create a session with the Alarm Server. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A4D4B840-0A7A-58D4-A192-9CBCA12C1493"><p>Add the alarm to the
Alarm Server using the <xref href="GUID-1AA25731-023C-315B-8047-8FBFEEF71712.dita"><apiname>AlarmAdd()</apiname></xref> API. </p> </li>
</ol> <p>The following code fragment illustrates how to activate an alarm
on the given days: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-876EF47E-4699-54C7-B102-518679A7DF3B" xml:space="preserve">
#include &lt;ASCliSession.h&gt;    // For RASCliSession.
#include &lt;ASShdAlarm.h&gt;      // For TASShdAlarm.

…

// Create an alarm that is active on Monday and Wednesday.
TASShdAlarm alarm;
alarm.RepeatDefinition() = EAlarmRepeatDefinitionRepeatDailyOnGivenDays;
alarm.SetAlarmDays( EAlarmDayMonday | EAlarmDayWednesday );

// Connect to Alarm Server.
RASCliSession alarmSession;
User::LeaveIfError( alarmSession.Connect() );
CleanupClosePushL( alarmSession );

// Add the alarm to Alarm Server.
User::LeaveIfError( alarmSession.AlarmAdd( alarm ) );

CleanupStack::PopAndDestroy();
</codeblock> </section>
<section><title>Results</title> <p>The alarm is set to repeat every week on
Monday and Wednesday. </p> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-114D4F3F-9358-5B50-94DC-45CCBA783DF4.dita"><linktext>Alarm Server
Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-E6788741-EF34-57B7-B4D4-8AAC21B25774.dita"><linktext>Alarm Server
Concepts</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>