<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-AFE0238A-D6A4-5D07-BB99-85E8CF97BD26" xml:lang="en"><title>Secure
Software Install SIS Tools Overview</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The <b>Secure Software Install SIS Tools</b> enable you to create, sign,
decompile and preinstall SIS files. </p>
<section id="GUID-7FDA2D06-5E36-4757-BC83-E78A206FF64B"><title>Description</title> <p>The Secure Software Install SIS Tools
component comprises the following PC-side command-line tools: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-08851BF3-9C9B-5B82-A231-6B18773E7411"><p>The <xref href="GUID-4BDC9F63-83A1-53A5-91A0-B092AA821755.dita">MakeSIS</xref> tool
creates unsigned SIS files based on the information provided in an input package
(PKG) file. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9A4C3909-108E-50F0-A50B-23D95537F56A"><p>The <xref href="GUID-B20EE8A3-D7B2-5872-AF43-001A88C1A46E.dita">SignSIS</xref> tool
signs SIS files using a certificate and private key. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-951A5574-4C25-5EC4-A024-76907FF2A4C6"><p>The <xref href="GUID-AA555CC1-5CFF-5609-9191-8970F32BA255.dita">CreateSIS</xref> tool
is a wrapper around the MakeSIS, SignSIS, and MakeKeys tools, which automates
the process of generating and signing SIS files. It supports creating new
SIS files from package (PKG) files, signing existing package files and generating
private-public key pair and certificate requests for signing. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F1D3CFEF-7562-5E6C-B2CC-7801DF4D642C"><p>The <xref href="GUID-42CF6D55-CAD2-5049-A1B6-35479404C273.dita">DumpSIS</xref> tool
decompiles input SIS file and extracts the corresponding PKG and source files. </p> </li>

</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-5B284ADE-E9D1-437F-9610-78F20CDD2697"><title>Required background</title> <p>Before you start, you must
be familiar with the following: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-74F7883B-84E6-5CEF-8B17-90554A3F6048"><p><xref href="GUID-FB2CAA46-8EBB-5F76-847C-F3B953C9D31C.dita">Public
Key Cryptography</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-F3A86986-12F1-5E93-9DD8-DB21EFC84885"><p><xref href="GUID-911E9F7E-D0AD-55EC-A3F4-1D427F803780.dita">Digital
Certificates</xref>  </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-CF573733-60C3-4EBA-9A87-11A12E06EA4E"><title>Key concepts and terms</title> <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>PKG File</dt>
<dd><p>A package (PKG) file contains information required by the SIS file
creation tools to create a SIS file. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>SIS File</dt>
<dd><p>A Symbian Installation Source (SIS) file is a collection of executables
and data files, packaged in a way that the software installer can install
them onto a device. SIS files can be preinstalled on a device. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Signing</dt>
<dd><p>A SIS file must be signed with a digital signature, which is used in
verifying the identity of the vendor of an installation file. This ensures
that the file has not been tampered with since it was signed. For details
see, <xref href="GUID-AFBD4ED6-9588-531C-8EDF-566DB1D03088.dita">Signing</xref>. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Eclipsing</dt>
<dd><p>Eclipsing is a mechanism to upgrade files existing on the ROM drive,
by installing a new version of the same on the RAM drive. For details see, <xref href="GUID-F8A26275-883A-5299-9C37-9DDCC2F62108.dita">Eclipsing</xref>. </p> </dd>
</dlentry>


</dl> </section>
<section id="GUID-B5A78585-05EF-4763-8C70-33AE5882F1EA"><title>Typical Uses</title> <p>The SIS tools can be used to perform
the following: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-0E5E3BED-B678-54E1-98F0-09672A5BDA8C"><p> <b>Create and sign
an installation file</b>  </p> <p>Symbian application developers can create
installation packages using <codeph>MakeSIS</codeph> and sign them using <codeph>SignSIS</codeph>.
Alternatively, the <codeph>CreateSIS</codeph> tool, which is a wrapper around <codeph>MakeSIS</codeph> and <codeph>SignSIS</codeph>,
can be used to create and sign an installation file. For details see <xref href="GUID-03BBEA31-3266-5B1C-9017-4EE7EA4AF1A8.dita">Creating and Signing an Installation
File</xref>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-E5CAFFB6-7396-5220-942D-2406C39D8E01"><p> <b>Upgrade OS components</b>  </p> <p>The
software installer enables a device manufacturer to replace binaries and data
files in ROM, for example, to fix a software issue, by means of eclipsing.
For details, see <xref href="GUID-7F65B69A-6AC1-509C-91E8-9E49ED0BFEC0.dita">Upgrading
an OS Component</xref>. </p> </li>

</ul> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-C55D1D74-B764-5DD1-8C43-5A5138578EAC.dita"><linktext>Secure Software
Install SIS Tools Concepts</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-A4C26317-9F76-587E-A4B6-D94892ACF11B.dita"><linktext>Secure Software
Install SIS Tools Tutorials</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-100F41B4-67BE-5978-99DA-C9B6DE8760F7.dita"><linktext>Secure Software
Install SIS Tools Reference</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>