<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-6146A5BB-1AC1-48D4-9EB8-7FA4EC35BFF2" xml:lang="en"><title>Typical
full QWERTY keyboard functions</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The default short key press events of a QWERTY keyboard are listed in the
following table:</p>
<table id="GUID-66BD6DF8-3E0B-4953-A740-59654AECE592"><title>Default short
key press event on full QWERTY keyboard</title>
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Key</entry>
<entry>Action</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Character keys</p></entry>
<entry><p>Adds a character.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Backspace</p></entry>
<entry><p>Moves the cursor one step back, clearing any character or selected
text in that position.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Enter</p></entry>
<entry><p>Adds a carriage return where possible (a new line). Elsewhere the
default behavior is similar with the Selection key.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Space</p></entry>
<entry><p>Adds a space.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Chr</p></entry>
<entry><p>Opens the special characters table.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Shift</p></entry>
<entry><p>Activates the Shift character mode for the character that is pressed
after Shift. For example, consecutive presses of Shift and the character 
a' produce a capital  A' character.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Scroll keys</p></entry>
<entry><p>Moves the cursor or focus to the pressed direction.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Fn key (optional key)</p></entry>
<entry><p>Activates Fn-mode character input for the next following key press.Two
presses activate Fn mode (locked) until single press deactivates the mode.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The default long key press events of a full QWERTY keyboard are listed
in the following table:</p>
<table id="GUID-8D73725D-308C-489F-93FD-52A4C2C37FB6"><title>Default long
key press events on full QWERTY keyboard</title>
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Key</entry>
<entry>Action</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Character keys</p></entry>
<entry><p>Adds a character with key repeat.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Backspace</p></entry>
<entry><p>Moves the cursor back, clearing the previous character with key
repeat.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Enter</p></entry>
<entry><p>Adds a carriage return where possible (a new line) with key repeat.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Space</p></entry>
<entry><p>Adds a space with key repeat.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Chr</p></entry>
<entry><p>Accented characters can be entered by holding down the Chr key and
pressing a character key consecutively.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Scroll keys</p></entry>
<entry><p>Moves the cursor or focus to the pressed direction with key repeat.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The key combinations for full QWERTY keyboard are listed in the following
table:</p>
<table id="GUID-23D4787A-8FE2-494E-96D2-2FB69F5681E8"><title>Key combinations
on full QWERTY keyboard</title>
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Key</entry>
<entry>Action</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Shift + a character key</p></entry>
<entry><p>Enters the Shift character of that particular character key. Can
be used either as two consecutive short presses or simultaneous presses.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Shift + scroll keys</p></entry>
<entry><p>Selects text from the present cursor position to the direction of
the selected scroll key. Simultaneous pressing is required.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Chr + a character key</p></entry>
<entry><p>Accented characters can be entered by holding down the Chr key and
then pressing a character key repeatedly.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>"Dead" keys</p></entry>
<entry><p>Some keys in certain localized keyboards that produce a visible
outcome in editing only after another key is pressed right afterwards. For
example, accents over characters.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Ctrl +  x'</p></entry>
<entry><p>Cuts the text in editors (for example, text that was
selected with Shift + a scroll key).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Ctrl +  c'</p></entry>
<entry><p>Copies the text in editors (for example, text that was selected
with Shift + a scroll key).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Ctrl +  v'</p></entry>
<entry><p>Pastes text in editors (for example, text that was selected with
Shift + a scroll key).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Fn + a character key</p></entry>
<entry><p>Activates Fn-mode for that key press.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Fn + space</p></entry>
<entry><p>Opens editing menu.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody></concept>