<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en" id="GUID-8B57B733-C418-5623-AFAD-34935FED1743"><title>Basic Application Framework Utilities Overview</title><shortdesc>Basic Application Framework Utilities (BAFL) is a utility library that enables Symbian Developers to use the system resources such as clipboard and file system. It is a complementary interface to the Symbian file system handling functions, and most of the APIs provided by this library requires a session with Symbian file system. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><section><title>BAFL library details</title> <p>The DLL that provides the functionality and the library to which your code must link is identified below. </p> <table id="GUID-1DF8D92D-37D4-54D5-BBA9-067DBC8A2199"><tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><thead><row><entry>DLL</entry> <entry>LIB</entry> <entry>Short description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <filepath>bafl.dll</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p> <filepath>bafl.lib</filepath>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Utility library providing APIs to access clipboard data, parse command-line arguments, and so on. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> <section><title>Description</title> <p>A Symbian application developer can use this library to use the system resources for the most common and frequent tasks such as copying and pasting data, reading files, producing sounds, comparing strings, handling notifications and so on. </p> </section> <section><title>APIs</title> <p>The key classes of BAFL are as follows: </p> <table id="GUID-5B5CEADB-B1E5-5374-8088-6A20E81554AA"><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/><thead><row><entry>API</entry> <entry>Description</entry> </row> </thead> <tbody><row><entry><p> <xref href="GUID-7E9D05E4-FD8E-31C8-A3D5-9591F5784794.dita"><apiname>CClipBoard</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Provides access to the clipboard. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <xref href="GUID-CE114EA5-A084-39A5-9F48-14344AB5BDBA.dita"><apiname>CCommandLineArguments</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Provides access to the arguments passed to an application when it is launched from the graphical shell. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <xref href="GUID-1ABD9C74-01F0-3144-9E5C-550E83F4D424.dita"><apiname>CDesCArray</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Base class for implementing independent descriptor arrays. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <xref href="GUID-A9F599D8-DCD8-3066-890B-EFE32B11CDE0.dita"><apiname>CEnvironmentChangeNotifier</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Enables an application to respond to changes in system environment. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <xref href="GUID-1D10173D-17C1-3EA3-923E-6C7017F1F56F.dita"><apiname>RChangeNotifier</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Provides a handle to the kernel-side environment change notification service. This service will notify the registered applications of any change in system environment, so that the applications can respond to the change by taking necessary actions. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <xref href="GUID-A735CD33-ABE9-30BA-95D3-16F3B17F82C3.dita"><apiname>RIncrMatcherBase</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Provides functions for comparing two text buffers. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <xref href="GUID-1B8D19AA-9FCF-32D5-B072-CDBA52F89CCD.dita"><apiname>CBaNamedPlugins</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Supports locale-specific translation of plug-in names. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <xref href="GUID-AA6DEF11-6F23-3523-A9F7-F15DF918E1BA.dita"><apiname>RResourceFile</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Provides access to the application resource files. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <xref href="GUID-4BF6ECD3-5FB3-3A6A-B9CE-98871BD0812B.dita"><apiname>RStringPool</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Provides access to the string pool. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <xref href="GUID-DF7CBE32-6D4E-3C15-982F-D5C2E0EDE380.dita"><apiname>CoeSoundPlayer</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Utility class for simple sound playing. </p> </entry> </row> <row><entry><p> <xref href="GUID-D426C4BB-F317-3F22-AC37-E741FCB0B269.dita"><apiname>BaSystemSound</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry> <entry><p>Retrieves and modifies the system sounds settings. </p> </entry> </row> </tbody> </tgroup> </table> </section> <section><title>Using BAFL</title> <p>The following tutorials will guide Symbian Developers to use the BAFL utility library for various use-cases supported: </p> <ul><li id="GUID-406779F6-8A12-56E8-8BBB-713FABAEDB8C"><p>Copying and pasting data from clipboard </p> </li> <li id="GUID-FF308E8D-F5FD-5DC7-8C5A-806473FDF715"><p>Parsing command-line arguments </p> </li> <li id="GUID-E9C55412-7569-57A1-9DFB-92456800EACA"><p>Creating and managing descriptor arrays </p> </li> <li id="GUID-9C577A7F-DB2D-55F2-AD4D-C557DBF64F84"><p>Handling environment change notifications </p> </li> <li id="GUID-46C49AC4-B48B-5EE0-B10A-598CE773F036"><p>Comparing text buffers </p> </li> <li id="GUID-4E26B2EA-60BC-5BF0-8926-0928C33A56DD"><p>Displaying names of plug-ins </p> </li> <li id="GUID-A0B5EAF7-4243-5B8B-81C5-A8DE386594E1"><p>Reading application resource files </p> </li> <li id="GUID-04B6A292-9C0E-5C01-B405-4DACD56A6543"><p>Producing sounds for common events such as messages and errors </p> </li> <li id="GUID-9A8DCB67-99B0-5DE2-84B4-1CB93945FBEF"><p>Handling pre-defined string constants </p> </li> </ul> </section> </conbody><related-links><link href="GUID-F61D1710-2D52-5B9B-A25F-6DFA606DAC0F.dita"><linktext>BAFL Concepts</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-85AA0FD4-3BD1-50A7-B241-AE3908ACCF30.dita"><linktext>BAFL Tutorials</linktext> </link> <link href="GUID-7953ECE8-3935-57E1-86C2-D53132930B71.dita"><linktext>BAFL Examples</linktext> </link> </related-links></concept>