<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-F25C17AC-BA88-4965-BAE8-AEF0E2EA66EC" xml:lang="en">
<title>Zooming actions</title>
<shortdesc>Mobile device users must be able to zoom in and o<?Pub
Caret?>ut consistently within applications on a mobile device. However
the zooming actions may  differ from one device model to another.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata><keywords></keywords></metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>The product features and form factor of a mobile device determine
which zooming actions application developers should make available
on it: </p>
<ul>
<li><p>If the device has an ITU-T keypad, the asterisk (*) key zooms
in and the hash mark (#) key zooms out. This functionality is not
available in editors or other states where the keys play another role.
In these cases, the zoom functions, if applicable, must be available
in the <uicontrol>Options</uicontrol> menu. </p></li>
<li><p>If the device has a QWERTY or half-QWERTY keyboard, use the
two topmost keys at the top left of the keyboard for zooming in and
out. For example, on a Latin keyboard, use the Q key to zoom in and
the A key to zoom out. Some products might have zooming symbols printed
on the keyboard to help users find the zooming features. Again, the
functions are not available in editors.</p></li>
<li><p>On touch devices, users can use touch stripes to zoom. Finger
movement along the stripe controls zooming. Applications may support
different number of zoom levels. It should be possible to zoom across
the full range with one swipe.</p></li>
<li><p>On touch devices with multiple touch support, users can use
pinch zoom. See <xref
href="GUID-17C64C2F-9426-4B41-9F0A-23060289D644.dita">Multiple touch</xref
> section for more details on pinch in and pinch out.</p></li>
<li><p>On touch devices, some applications may support double-tapping
zoom. A double tap can toggle between zoomed and normal view, but
this depends on the application.</p></li>
</ul>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000002119?>
