<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-B9414AE8-820E-4CA5-A9C4-29560CD6F2EF" xml:lang="en"><title>Application
signing</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>All Symbian applications must be signed before they can be installed.
All applications which use <xref href="GUID-6971B0A2-F79B-4E05-8AF3-BB1FC1932A22.dita">capability</xref>-protected
APIs, where the capability cannot be granted by the end user, have to be certified.
Such certification can be obtained through <xref href="https://www.symbiansigned.com/" scope="external">Symbian
Signed</xref>.</p>
<p>Signing is a means of encoding a digital certificate into the application
installation file. The certificate identifies the application’s vendor, and
grants access to capabilities defined during the build process.</p>
<p>The signing process is described in detail on the <xref href="https://www.symbiansigned.com/" scope="external">Symbian
Signed</xref> website.</p>
<section id="GUID-B9414AE8-820E-4CA5-A9C4-29560CD6F2EH"><title>Signing options</title>
<p>If your application only needs <i>user capabilities</i> (<codeph>LocalServices</codeph>, <codeph>NetworkServices</codeph>, <codeph>ReadUserData</codeph>, <codeph>WriteUserData</codeph>, <codeph>UserEnvironment</codeph>, and<codeph>Location</codeph>),
you can self-sign the application.</p>
<note>
<p>When the end users are installing a self-signed application, they are
informed that the application is untrusted and may decide to abort the installation.
In Nokia E-series devices the user must change a setting to allow self-signed
applications to install.</p>
</note>
<p>Sign the <codeph>sis</codeph> <xref href="GUID-61EE2BE0-7B86-42CD-A03F-857DD8FAC246.dita">installation
file</xref> file with any private key. You can use the <xref href="jar:GUID-35228542-8C95-4849-A73F-2B4F082F0C44.jar!/sdk/doc_source/ToolsAndUtilities94/Installing/IntroductionToSecurity.guide.html" format="application/java-archive">MakeKeys</xref> application
to create the needed private key and, for example, <xref href="jar:GUID-35228542-8C95-4849-A73F-2B4F082F0C44.jar!/sdk/doc_source/ToolsAndUtilities94/Installing/IntroductionToSignSIS.guide.html" format="application/java-archive">SignSIS</xref> to
sign the application. Both applications are delivered with the SDK. For more
information, see <xref href="http://wiki.forum.nokia.com/index.php/How_to_sign_a_.Sis_file_with_Self-Sign_Certificate" scope="external">How
to sign a .Sis file with Self-Sign Certificate</xref> in the Forum Nokia
Developer Community Wiki.</p>
<p>The other signing options (Open Signed, Express Signed and Certified
Signed) are described in detail in <xref href="http://developer.symbian.com/ssguide" scope="external">The
Complete Guide to Symbian Signed</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="GUID-44AC868B-484A-4B84-8A3A-0351E70F1141"><title>Additional information
on signing</title>
<p>The UID value you need to use for your application depends on whether
your application is signed or self-signed. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-EA05F9B6-52C7-4BD9-8B9A-4BA3456E70B5.dita">UID</xref> and <xref href="jar:GUID-35228542-8C95-4849-A73F-2B4F082F0C44.jar!/sdk/doc_source/ToolsAndUtilities94/BuildTools/UsingUids.guide.html" format="application/java-archive">How
to use UIDs</xref>.</p>
</section>
</conbody></concept>