<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-3715E8EE-FF0A-4344-90F1-1609D54C166B" xml:lang="en"><title>Blinking
lights</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context>       <p>The <codeph>LightBlinkL()</codeph> method call makes the
specified target light to blink. Multiple light targets can be specified by
using bitwise-or.</p><p>The following code snippet demonstrates how to make
lights blink for infinite duration with default intensity for multiple targets:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">iLight-&gt;LightBlinkL( CHWRMLight::EPrimaryDisplay | CHWRMLight::EPrimaryKeyboard );</codeblock><p>The following code snippet demonstrates how to make lights blink for the
specified duration with default intensity for one target.</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">// aDuration = 5000 milliseconds
light-&gt;LightOnL( CHWRMLight::ESecondaryDisplay, 5000 );</codeblock><p>After
the duration expires, if there has not been a previous infinite time duration
call in this session, the light state for target is changed to whatever state
was caused by the last infinite time duration call, or default state determined
by inactivity timer.</p><p>The following code snippet demonstrates how to
switch ON lights for the specified duration, with specified intensity for
one target (On-cycle and off-cycle times of the blinking can also be controlled):</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">// aDuration = 5000 milliseconds
// aOnDuration = 500 milliseconds
// aOffDuration = 500 milliseconds
// aIntensity = 30, intensity can be between KHWRMLightMinIntensity and KHWRMLightMaxIntensity, inclusive.
light-&gt;LightOnL( CHWRMLight::ESecondaryDisplay, 5000, 500, 500, 30 );</codeblock><p>For
device default cycle duration, use the <codeph>KHWRMDefaultCycleTime</codeph> value.
If either <codeph>aOnDuration</codeph> or <codeph>aOffDuration</codeph> is <codeph>KHWRMDefaultCycleTime</codeph>,
both must be <codeph>KHWRMDefaultCycleTime</codeph>.</p><p><b>NOTE</b>: Some
devices may not support variable blink cycle times. In such scenarios, default
value is substituted. All devices may not support user-defined intensity,
during which the device behaves in its default state.</p></context>
</taskbody></task>