<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-85D006FA-EDCB-4BB4-8FD9-91C658B80DE7" xml:lang="en"><title>Removed APIs</title><shortdesc>All the APIs removed from Symbian^3 are listed with changes
required for the existing applications to work on Symbian^3.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The following list summarizes the removed APIs:</p>
<table id="GUID-1A133A2D-D803-4026-AF28-4A96DB25F42B-GENID-1-6-1-1-6-1-5-1-3-2">
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="0.34*"/><colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="1.66*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.66*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>APIs</entry>
<entry>Affected headers and libraries</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>

<entry>CDMA Support</entry>
<entry><filepath>etelcdma.dll</filepath>, <filepath>etelcdmautils.dll</filepath>, and <filepath>cdmau.dll</filepath>.</entry>
<entry>All APIs related to CDMA are removed. Device manufacturers
who want to have Symbian-based CDMA products, must have their own
CDMA implementation.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>CFontStore::RemoveLinkedFont()</codeph>, <codeph>CFontStore::IsValidLinkedFontSpecification()</codeph>, <codeph>CBitmapFont::FontWithCharacter()</codeph>, <codeph>CBitmapFont::IsLinkedFont()</codeph>, <codeph>CBitmapFont::LinkedFontInformation()</codeph>, <codeph>CBitmapFont::NextFontClientSpace()</codeph>, <codeph>CLinkedFontInformation</codeph>, <codeph>CLinkedFontSpecification</codeph>, <codeph>CLinkedFontForCache</codeph>, and <codeph>COpenFontForCache</codeph>.</entry>
<entry><filepath>openfont.h</filepath> and <filepath>fntstr.dll</filepath></entry>
<entry>All these linked font APIs have been removed. Remove all references
to these APIs and rebuild the applications.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Application Engines<ul>
<li><p>Word Engine (<filepath>wngmodel.h</filepath>, <filepath>wngmodel.inl</filepath>, and <filepath>wngdoor.h</filepath>)</p></li>
<li><p>Sheet Engine (<filepath>shgapi.h</filepath>, <filepath>shgerr.h</filepath>, <filepath>shgpanic.h</filepath>, <filepath>shgcoord.h</filepath>, <filepath>shgtoken.h</filepath>, <filepath>shgfmlex.h</filepath>, <filepath>shgfmevl.h</filepath>, and <filepath>shgfmvwr.h</filepath>)</p></li>
<li><p>Chart Engine (<filepath>chtstd.h</filepath> and <filepath>chtstd.inl</filepath>)</p></li>
<li><p>Text to Word Converter Engine</p></li>
<li><p>Data Model Engine</p></li>
</ul></entry>
<entry><filepath>wpeng.dll</filepath>, <filepath>sheng.dll</filepath>, <filepath>chart.dll</filepath>, and <filepath>txtword.dll</filepath>.</entry>
<entry>All these application engines are removed. Remove all references
to the relevant APIs and rebuild the applications. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>CCHFContentHandler</codeph>, <codeph>CCHFDataSupplier</codeph>, <codeph>CCHFTopParent</codeph>, <codeph>CCHFContentLoader</codeph>, <codeph>CCHFProxySessionObject</codeph>, <codeph>CCHFSession</codeph>, <codeph>CCHFDiscoveryService</codeph>, <codeph>CCHFEventMappingService</codeph>, <codeph>RAbstractEventArray</codeph>, <codeph>MCHFContentLoaderObserver</codeph>, <codeph>MCHFDataSupplierObserver</codeph>, <codeph>MCHFDiscoveryService</codeph>, <codeph>MCHFEventMappingService</codeph>, and <codeph>MCHFParent;CFileDataSupplier</codeph>.</entry>
<entry><filepath>chf.dll</filepath>, <filepath>filedatasupplier.dll</filepath>, and <filepath>filedatasupplier_shared.dll</filepath>.</entry>
<entry>All Content Handling Framework APIs are removed. Remove all
references to these APIs and rebuild the applications. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>MContactBackupObserver</codeph></entry>
<entry><filepath>cntmodel.lib</filepath></entry>
<entry>This API has been removed. Remove implementations of this API
and rebuild applications.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>CClkDateTimeView</codeph>and <codeph>MClkModelObserver</codeph></entry>
<entry/>
<entry>These APIs have been removed as they were deprecated in the
earlier platform releases.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>CVibraControl</codeph>, <codeph>TVibraCtrlPanic</codeph>, <codeph>MVibraControlObserver</codeph>, and <codeph>VibraFactory</codeph>.</entry>
<entry><filepath>VibraCtrl.DLL</filepath></entry>
<entry>This API has been removed as it was deprecated in earlier platform
release. Use the <xref href="GUID-D78DCB72-7CEE-5075-A6FA-58D57AB5BA73.dita">HWRM Vibra API</xref> instead. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Calendar Interim Utils API</entry>
<entry><filepath>CalenInterimUtils.h</filepath> and <filepath>CalenInterimUtils.lib</filepath></entry>
<entry>This API has been replaced with Calendar Interim Utils2 API
in Symbian^3. So replace all your references to <filepath>CalenInterimUtils.h</filepath> and <filepath>CalenInterimUtils.lib</filepath> with <filepath>CalenInterimUtils2.h</filepath> and <filepath>CalenInterimUtils2.lib</filepath>, and build the application
binaries.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody></concept>