<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-F66AC845-58B8-4029-AE04-C283226B7C12" xml:lang="en"><title>Single tap</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>In S60 5th Edition, double tap (focus and select) was supported
for touch devices. The Symbian platform supports single tap, which
activates an item on direct selection. That is, the UI is no longer
focus driven. </p>
<p>The following are the highlighting features of single tap in the
Symbian platform:<ul>
<li><p>Single tap performs the core action without requiring double
tap. If the core action cannot be defined, then the single tap provides
the context-sensitive menu as Selection key press in hybrid devices.</p></li>
<li><p>By default, no visible focus in touch UI. Focus can be evoked
pressing Selection key or navigation keys in hybrid devices</p></li>
<li><p>All <xref href="GUID-567718E7-0267-4641-A9E3-538D893362D2.dita">item-specific options</xref> from the <b>Options</b> menu are hidden.
Item-specific options will be available via Stylus pop-up menu opened
with long tap, or in the next level in the UI hierarchy.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-567718E7-0267-4641-A9E3-538D893362D2.dita">Item-specific
options</xref> are removed from the touch toolbar. If there are less
than three actions left for the touch toolbar, the whole toolbar is
removed.</p></li>
<li><p>The landscape layout is optimized. Entire main pane area can
be utilized for the application content, when touch toolbar is not
required. Toolbars can still be utilized when the actions apply to
the whole view, for example, in Message viewer and editor.</p></li>
</ul></p>
</conbody></concept>