<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-07791D92-4B0F-5D11-9874-4C03FA1A2C02" xml:lang="en"><title>MClasses1-3:
abstract interface classes</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section><title>Description</title> <p>The three examples show the use of
‘M’ (abstract interface) classes, the only type of multiple inheritance used
on the Symbian platform. </p> <p>They show how interfaces can be used to define
a protocol. The interface is implemented by a protocol provider, and called
by a protocol user. The user is not supposed to know anything about the provider's
implementation, only about the protocol it's interested in. </p> </section>
<section><title>Download</title> <p>Click on the following links to download
the examples: </p><p><xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-58f282fd-d552-4f00-a0db-9d15054c1f1b.zip" scope="external">MClasses1.zip </xref></p><p><xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-7c247e26-e8e4-4d94-9dc8-287b73e6ccb7.zip" scope="external">MClasses2.zip </xref></p><p><xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-e67b5701-f1ec-4c9a-85f0-a44117c97673.zip" scope="external">MClasses3.zip </xref></p><p>Click on the following link to
download additional files: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-bd05bfa4-e51c-4cf7-b327-646b0b9e814d.zip" scope="external">CommonFramework.zip</xref>.</p><p>Click the following links
to view the example code.</p><p><xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-58f282fd-d552-4f00-a0db-9d15054c1f1b.html" scope="peer">MClasses1 </xref> </p><p><xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-7c247e26-e8e4-4d94-9dc8-287b73e6ccb7.html" scope="peer">MClasses2 </xref></p><p><xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-e67b5701-f1ec-4c9a-85f0-a44117c97673.html" scope="peer">MClasses3 </xref> </p><p>Click <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-bd05bfa4-e51c-4cf7-b327-646b0b9e814d.html" scope="peer">browse CommonFramework</xref> to view the additional
files.</p> </section>
<section><title>Build</title> <p>The examples each include the two project
files needed for building: <filepath>bld.inf</filepath> and the <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file. </p> <p><xref href="GUID-3100800B-B2F7-50EF-BD4C-3C345ECCB2A5.dita">The Symbian platform build
process</xref> describes how to build these applications. They results in
executables called: </p> <p> <filepath>\epoc32\release\&lt;target&gt;\&lt;urel
or           udeb&gt;\MCLASSES1.EXE</filepath>. </p> <p> <filepath>\epoc32\release\&lt;target&gt;\&lt;urel
or           udeb&gt;\MCLASSES2.EXE</filepath>. </p> <p> <filepath>\epoc32\release\&lt;target&gt;\&lt;urel
or           udeb&gt;\MCLASSES3.EXE</filepath>. </p> </section>
<section><title>Usage</title> <p>Run the executables <filepath>MCLASSES1.EXE</filepath>, <filepath>MCLASSES2.EXE</filepath> and <filepath>MCLASSES3.EXE</filepath>. </p> <p>Executables for the emulator targets <filepath>wins</filepath> and <filepath>winscw</filepath> can
be run on your PC. Executables for ARM targets must be copied to your target
platform before being run. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>