<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-63CBD66E-9E92-51EB-8709-9DE6F2808DC8-GENID-1-8-1-18-1-1-4-1-7-1" xml:lang="en"><title>S60
Platform: Image Converter Example</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This example demonstrates how to use the image conversion APIs available
in the S60 platform (Image Conversion Library, ICL). These APIs include important
classes, such as CBitmapRotator and CBitmapScaler to be used for rotating
and scaling images, respectively. CImageEncoder and CImageDecoder classes
are used to access image encoders and decoders available in the ICL. Images
can be opened, rotated, scaled, and saved in the same or a different format.
The UI of the updated application has been optimised for touch using, for
example, long taps and tactile feedback. The example project supports building
for both S60 5th Edition with touch UI and S60 3rd Edition with a traditional
keypad. Important classes: CAknLongTapDetector, MTouchFeedback, CBitmapRotator,
CBitmapScaler, CImageEncoder, CImageDecoder, CFbsBitmap, CAknQueryDialog.
For more details, click on this link : <xref href="http://www.forum.nokia.com/info/sw.nokia.com/id/567330dd-130f-4f1d-9380-fac5aec5a6a9/S60_Platform_Image_Converter_Example.html" scope="external"> ImageConverter..zip file</xref></p>
<p>The overview contains the following sections: </p>
<section id="GUID-1DFEF992-19E6-4231-BC3C-E996E8C0626C-GENID-1-8-1-18-1-1-4-1-7-1-2-3"><title>Download</title> <p>Click
on the following link to download the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-dc5f26e3-7c69-43ef-b3f1-c62469891d0d.zip" scope="external"> ICLExample.zip file</xref></p><p>Click: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-dc5f26e3-7c69-43ef-b3f1-c62469891d0d.html" scope="peer">browse </xref> to view the example code. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>