<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
	Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->  <!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd"><concept id="GUID-9D6E0EB4-CBF8-48BC-A76F-FE6366D4D96E" xml:lang="en"><title>Downloading</title><prolog><metadata><keywords></keywords></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>You can use the Download Manager Client
API to create and manage a session in which files are downloaded
over HTTP or HTTPS. </p>
<p>The DRM
APIs provided by the multimedia framework in the Symbian platform
allow you to provide DRM services in your application.</p>
<section id="GUID-541D396A-FAD1-4B8B-A4AB-09758369293B"><title>OMA download</title>
<p>The Symbian platform supports the <xref scope="external" href="http://www.openmobilealliance.org/">Open
Mobile Alliance</xref> (OMA) download v1.0 open standard and application-level
protocol that enables reliable content downloads. It can be integrated with
other services, such as billing, allowing premium-priced content to be made
available to mobile users. OMA download replaces content object descriptor
(COD) download as the preferred method for downloading content to mobile devices.</p>
<p>OMA download improves the mobile device user experience by informing
users of the success of the content download. This helps ensure that the content
can be used in the mobile device and that users are not charged if downloading
fails. OMA download is used on top of HTTP or the wireless session protocol
(WSP). </p>
<p>The effort needed to implement OMA download is minimal. An operator
only needs to create a so-called download descriptor file for each piece of
content and make simple changes in the HTTP server to enable the OMA download
protocol. For example, OMA download can be adopted without any changes in
the billing mechanisms. However, to fully benefit from it, some changes are
required in order to know whether users received the ordered content and hence
ensure that they will not be charged if downloading fails. The install notification
feature of OMA download can, for example, be used as an event that triggers
billing.</p>
<p>OMA DRM and OMA download are independent technologies for independent
tasks. Both promote the mobile content downloading business as well as improve
the mobile device user experience of mobile content. Content protected by
OMA DRM can be delivered using OMA download as well as multimedia messaging
service (MMS), mobile information device profile (MIDP) OTA, and so on. OMA
DRM and OMA download are standardized in parallel by OMA. For more information,
see <xref href="GUID-60F25F66-8CC5-46BF-9274-BDE8F9A10B74.dita"></xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="GUID-5968A533-AC94-4DC6-B0B3-4F9A0D149F88"><title>Additional information</title>
<p>For general information on DRM and reliable download technologies, see
the <xref scope="external" href="http://www.forum.nokia.com/main/resources/technologies/drm_and_download/index.html">DRM
and Download page</xref>. It includes links to information on Open Mobile
Alliance (OMA) DRM and OMA download standards as well as a useful table on
DRM support in different releases of the Symbian platform.</p>
<p>For additional information on DRM, see the <xref scope="external" href="http://www.forum.nokia.com/main/resources/documentation/drm.html">DRM
documentation page </xref>.</p>
<p>Forum Nokia also provides documentation on using downloading and DRM
features in <xref scope="external" href="http://www.forum.nokia.com/main/resources/technologies/symbian/documentation/browsing___drm___download.html">applications
written in Symbian C++</xref>.</p>
<p>For more information on multimedia and the multimedia framework, see <xref href="GUID-C5738F3D-E1D5-492D-89C9-5AC28F22BE71.dita"></xref>.</p>
</section>
</conbody></concept>