<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-174D98FF-6782-564E-9FDF-1AE32F770591" xml:lang="en"><title>Sound
Device Collection Overview </title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The Sound Device collection provides a common interface for all audio functionality. </p>
<section><title>Purpose</title> <p>The Sound Device collection represents
a framework for hardware accelerated access to audio functionality on the
Symbian platform. </p> </section>
<section><title>Architectural relationship</title> <p>The Sound Device collection
interacts with audio plug-ins and audio processing hardware. </p> </section>
<section><title>Description</title> <p>The Sound Device collection includes
a client API for audio and a plug-in interface, where plug-ins correspond
to a particular accelerated function, such as MP3 decoding. </p> </section>
<section><title>Components</title> <p>The Sound Device collection comprises
the following components: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-064C2E4F-113B-5C0B-9662-2DAD5D574F71"><p>DevSound API - the common
API for all audio functionality. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-EF2413F1-9747-54B8-8EB4-23C736540C37"><p>Advanced Audio Adaptation
Framework (A3F) - an alternative implementation of DevSound. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-401DEFD4-7506-5EA8-8B93-C70E4BD11F66"><p>DevSound Plug-in Support
- provides support for loading plug-in implementations. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-4BC07079-DB38-5C39-B065-3F440C0DF081"><p>Reference DevSound Plug-ins
- provides a DevSound reference implementation. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>Using Sound Device</title> <p>The Sound Device collection
offers the following functionality: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-726C6682-0C6D-5B3F-B1E0-2C1782048C50"><p>Playing and recording
audio data. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-4EC6B4F5-3CAD-5D65-9511-972B3690F398"><p>Loading audio plug-ins. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-C0E3EFF7-B9B0-53E6-8480-B0427A6C47CE"><p>Implementing a DevSound. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>See also</title> <p><xref href="GUID-170A1D9C-12CB-502A-BCB3-9E2AEBB207FA.dita">A3F
DevSound</xref>  </p> <p><xref href="GUID-4AAABD77-C08E-5EE2-A02A-3B412EA6D23F.dita">Advanced
Audio Adaptation Framework Overview</xref> </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>