<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-BC191AA8-696F-51A2-801F-B3F952037F54" xml:lang="en"><title>OS
Security Quick Start</title><shortdesc>OS Security on the Symbian platform enables data confidentiality,
integrity and authentication. It provides high-level services, such as key
and certificate management, authentication, secure user prompting, and Digital
Rights Management (DRM) framework. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-3925A78F-68F0-4D92-BE2D-4AA7A2071C38"><title>Getting started
with OS Security </title> <p>OS Security is intended to support: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-29D6A956-E19D-5015-8AF7-08C2AC607100"><p>Secure communication
protocols that provide data confidentiality and integrity </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-250B6FC2-44CB-5C3E-824C-AFFDA315421E"><p>Authentication of installable
software </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-521A3365-8C88-559C-92D5-E487047BFC4D"><p>Protection of device
integrity </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-9337A628-41D8-4450-8EDB-8D89AB6FA3A1"><title>Architecture</title> <p>OS
Security includes the following collections: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-5A81451B-7E7F-55D9-8FF5-1AD439A237AD"><p><xref href="GUID-BA362536-C9C9-5BA4-BEE3-0E1AD7FA45F1.dita">Authorisation</xref> contains <xref href="GUID-5329AE68-39E0-55E7-9878-2D8FF9E29B21.dita">User Prompt Service</xref> (UPS)
component that provides standard interfaces for the device creators to set
policies that determine if requests made by applications to access system
services, such making telephone calls, need confirmation from the user. </p> </li>

<li id="GUID-BC9ED5D1-58C7-5126-BF16-E49316A6A198"><p><xref href="GUID-A40376B6-8B2B-551A-B72F-CFCADBC84BE7.dita">Security
and Data Privacy Tools</xref> contains <xref href="GUID-8933D7D5-F84D-5BF2-BF2A-832DA183E26B.dita">Security
Config</xref> and <xref href="GUID-4B03733F-D84D-5A28-B772-2E256D86ABC7.dita">Security
Tools</xref> components. Security Config contains security ROM build-time
configuration files. Device creators use the configuration files to customize
the behavior of security components. Security Tools comprises of <codeph>certapp</codeph> tool
that creates, augments, dumps and debugs certificate stores. It also dumps
certificate files in human-readable form. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-14FFA600-49D0-51B4-A211-83E57E0311CF"><p><xref href="GUID-E6C91CF2-A616-5E52-8BB2-630C42C8D540.dita">Crypto
Management Libraries</xref> provides interfaces for management of tokens used
for secure authentication, such as cryptographic keys and certificates. It
contains <xref href="GUID-A6FF1073-AA55-588D-8DC1-0A8C16864891.dita">CryptoToken
framework</xref> to provide interfaces for managing cryptography certificates,
keys and certificate applications. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9905841F-3578-508F-B808-B639E630C907"><p><xref href="GUID-C00FBDE4-EF59-5FED-BA92-625414AF45AE.dita">Crypto
Libraries</xref> contains a Weak CryptoSPI and Strong CryptoSPI components
together called as CryptoSPI framework. The framework provides software-based
implementations of cryptographic algorithms. It allows device creators to
include alternative implementations as plug-in DLLs. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-98FCDDF0-F056-5C80-9DF1-2A8E9EB9A31C"><p>Crypto Plug-ins contains
CryptoSPI Plug-ins component. These are plug-ins to the <xref href="GUID-C00FBDE4-EF59-5FED-BA92-625414AF45AE.dita">Crypto
Libraries'</xref> Crypto SPI framework. It provides software-based implementations
of cryptographic algorithms for encryption, decryption, hash and random number
generation. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-E531D513-BFB8-575C-A512-5757B3568522"><p><xref href="GUID-2663ED06-8C97-5867-B7F6-6167EBFEA223.dita">Crypto
Services</xref> provides interfaces to handle cryptographic keys and certificates.
It contains <xref href="GUID-C3290344-486B-554D-97FC-42DF48E150AA.dita">Certificate
and Key Management</xref>, <xref href="GUID-A5DCCEB1-77DA-53C9-A1A3-07615DFCD403.dita">File-Based
Certificate and Key Stores</xref>, <xref href="GUID-314992D7-F6E1-5335-9EDA-DE89E67CDF57.dita">ASN-PKCS</xref>  <xref href="GUID-92025FE2-16B1-59FE-9967-6972F6E7D4CA.dita">Root Certificates</xref> and
OpenSSL components. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>The following diagram shows the OS Security's components grouped
into collections, which are shown as white boxes: </p>  </section>
<section id="GUID-37CD3D25-4861-4277-AF70-C8A3038C85C4"><title>Technologies</title> <p> <b>DRM</b>  </p> <p>DRM
refers to an access control technology that prevents unauthorised use of copyrighted
content. </p> <p>To know more about the key concepts used in OS
Security, see <xref href="GUID-6F73ED8C-E259-5717-AB84-0C2933A866DA.dita">OS Security
Concepts</xref>. </p> </section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-B2089965-546C-5FF2-8596-13A2221E02E6.dita"><linktext>User Prompt
Service Tutorials</linktext></link>


<link href="GUID-16BA7B80-DC75-512C-AAEC-F571B5B73F09.dita"><linktext>Crypto Libraries
Tutorials</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-B946BDF0-C5D8-57E2-9D05-7BE134AD032E.dita"><linktext> Unified
Certificate Store Tutorial</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-6C6AED40-D5B3-5613-8F92-FD2CB711AE54.dita"><linktext>Unified Keystore
Tutorials</linktext></link>


</related-links></concept>