<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-210A181E-5EB6-4626-9E7E-8761A2272D79" xml:lang="en"><title>Set
a view as a default view</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context>       <p>An application can set a specific registered view as the
default view. The default view is displayed when the application is launched
or brought to the foreground. Also, a system default view can be set, which
is used when an unrecoverable error occurs during view activation or when
the application exits. </p><ul>
<li><p>Application default view </p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">CCoeAppUi::SetDefaultViewL( MCoeView&amp; aView )</codeblock><p>Sets
the specified view as the default view for the application. If the application
already has the default view set, then the specified view overrides existing
default view.</p></li>
<li><p>System default view.</p><ul>
<li><codeblock xml:space="preserve">CCoeAppUi::SetSystemDefaultViewL( const TVwsViewId &amp; )</codeblock><p>Sets
the system default view for default screen device mode, which is <codeph>0</codeph>.</p></li>
<li><codeblock xml:space="preserve">CCoeAppUi::SetSystemDefaultViewL( const TVwsViewId &amp;,TInt )</codeblock><p>Sets
the specified view as system default view for a given screen mode.</p></li>
</ul><note> An application must have the <codeph>ECapabilityWriteDeviceData</codeph> capability
to set a view as a system default view. If the system default view is already
set, then the specified view overrides existing default view.  </note></li>
</ul><p> The following code snippet shows setting a view as the default view
for an application:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">iCCoeAppUi-&gt;SetDefaultViewL( iViewId );</codeblock></context>
</taskbody></task>