<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-919E32B1-1316-4B09-B668-E744E78B0B6E" xml:lang="en"><title>Supported
file types</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This section describes the file types supported by the Media Fetch API
and the metadata system (MdS).</p>
<p>The Media Fetch API and the <xref href="GUID-1BCF7ADD-2B1D-4C58-AADB-250101C29620.dita">metadata
system</xref> support the following types of multimedia items:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>Video files</p></li>
<li><p>Audio files</p></li>
<li><p>Image files</p></li>
<li><p>Streaming links</p></li>
<li><p>Playlist files</p></li>
</ul>
<p>The following table describes the supported video files.</p>
<table id="GUID-1065D769-B1EA-4FD3-82CA-82760BB24921"><title>Supported video
files</title>
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry><p>File extension</p></entry>
<entry><p>MIME type</p></entry>
<entry><p>Description</p></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>3g2</p></entry>
<entry><p>video/3gp</p></entry>
<entry><p>3GP is a multimedia container format that is defined by the Third
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) for use on 3G mobile devices but that
can also be played on some 2G and 4G devices.</p><p>The 3GPP2 standard is
defined for CDMA-based devices and has the file extension 3g2.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>3gp</p></entry>
<entry><p>video/3gp</p></entry>
<entry><p>The 3GPP standard is defined for GSM-based devices and has the file
extension 3gp.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>avi</p></entry>
<entry><p>video/avi</p></entry>
<entry><p>Audio video interleave (AVI) is a multimedia container format introduced
by Microsoft as part of its Video for Windows technology. AVI files can contain
both audio and video data in a file container that allows synchronous audio-with-video
playback.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>flv</p></entry>
<entry><p>video/x-flv</p></entry>
<entry><p>Flash video is a file format used to deliver video over the Internet
using Adobe Flash Player. Flash video content may also be embedded within
SWF files.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>m4v</p></entry>
<entry><p>video/mp4</p></entry>
<entry><p>M4V is a standard file format for videos for iPod and PlayStation
Portable devices developed by Apple. It is based on the MPEG-4 Part 2 compression.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>mp4</p></entry>
<entry><p>video/mp4</p></entry>
<entry><p>MPEG-4 is a multimedia container format standard that is most commonly
used to store digital audio and digital video streams, especially those defined
by MPEG. It can also be used to store other data such as subtitles and still
images.</p><p>MPEG-4 files with audio and video generally use the standard
mp4 extension.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>mpeg4</p></entry>
<entry><p>video/mp4</p></entry>
<entry><p>Another file name extension for MPEG-4 files.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>mpg4</p></entry>
<entry><p>video/mp4</p></entry>
<entry><p>Another file name extension for MPEG-4 files.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>ram</p></entry>
<entry><p>video/3gpp</p></entry>
<entry><p>RealAudio metadata (RAM) is typically a small text file that contains
a link to the audio stream.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>rm</p></entry>
<entry><p>application/vnd.rn-realmedia</p></entry>
<entry><p>RealMedia is a multimedia container format created by RealNetworks
that is typically used in conjunction with RealVideo and RealAudio for streaming
content over the Internet.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>rmvb</p></entry>
<entry><p>application/vnd.rn-realmedia-vbr</p></entry>
<entry><p>RealMedia variable bitrate (RMVB) is a container streaming content
over the Internet with variable bit rate.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>rtp</p></entry>
<entry><p>application/x-nokia-teh-rtp</p></entry>
<entry><p/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>rv</p></entry>
<entry><p>video/vnd.rn-realvideo</p></entry>
<entry><p>RealVideo is a proprietary video format developed by RealNetworks
that is usually paired with RealAudio and packaged in a RealMedia (rm) container. </p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The following table describes the supported audio files.</p>
<table id="GUID-6CBC4824-63AF-49E4-A8E6-71816BE38E4D"><title>Supported audio
files</title>
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry><p>File extension</p></entry>
<entry><p>MIME type</p></entry>
<entry><p>Description</p></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>3gp</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/3gpp</p></entry>
<entry><p>The 3GPP standard is defined for GSM-based devices and has the file
extension 3gp.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>3gpp</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/3gpp</p></entry>
<entry><p>Another file name extension for 3GPP files.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>aac</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/aac</p></entry>
<entry><p>Advanced audio coding (AAC) is a standardized, compression and encoding
scheme for digital audio. Designed to be the successor of the MP3 format,
AAC generally achieves better sound quality than MP3 at many bit rates.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>amr</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/amr</p></entry>
<entry><p>A file format for storing spoken audio using the adaptive multi-rate
(AMR) codec. AMR is a patented audio data compression scheme optimized for
speech coding.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>au</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/au</p></entry>
<entry><p>A simple audio file format. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>awb</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/amr-wb</p></entry>
<entry><p>Adaptive multi-rate – wide band (AMR-WB) is a patented speech coding
standard developed after the AMR that provides excellent speech quality due
to wider speech bandwidth.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>m4a</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/mp4</p></entry>
<entry><p>Audio-only MPEG-4 files generally have an m4a extension. This is
especially true of non-protected content. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>mid</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/midi</p></entry>
<entry><p>Musical instrument digital interface (MIDI) is an industry-standard
protocol that enables electronic musical instruments, such as keyboard controllers,
computers, and other electronic equipment, to communicate, control, and synchronize
with each other. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>midi</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/midi</p></entry>
<entry><p>Another file name extension for MIDI files.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>mp3</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/mpeg</p></entry>
<entry><p>MPEG-1 audio layer 3, more commonly referred to as MP3, is a patented
digital audio encoding format using a form of data compression. It is a common
audio format for consumer audio storage and widely used for digital audio
compression for the transfer and playback of music on digital audio players.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>mp4</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/mp4</p></entry>
<entry><p>MPEG-4 files with audio and video generally use the standard mp4
extension.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>mxmf</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/vnd.nokia.mobile-xmf</p></entry>
<entry><p>The extensible music format (XMF) is a tree-based digital container
format used to bundle music-oriented content, such as a MIDI file and optionally
the sounds it uses, liner notes or other content grouped by language-codes. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>nrt</p></entry>
<entry><p>-</p></entry>
<entry><p>Nokia Ringing Tone.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>ra</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/vnd.rn-realaudio</p></entry>
<entry><p>RealAudio is a proprietary audio format developed by RealNetworks.
It uses a variety of audio codecs, ranging from low-bitrate formats that can
be used over dialup modems, to high-fidelity formats for music.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>rng</p></entry>
<entry><p>application/vnd.nokia.ringing-tone</p></entry>
<entry><p>Nokia Ringing Tone.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>spmid</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/sp-midi</p></entry>
<entry><p>Scalable polyphony MIDI (SP-MIDI) is a MIDI variant for mobile applications
where different players may have different numbers of musical voices. SP-MIDI
is a component of 3GPP.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>wav</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/wav</p></entry>
<entry><p>Waveform audio format is a Microsoft and IBM audio file format standard
for storing an audio bit stream on computers.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>wma</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/x-ms-wma</p></entry>
<entry><p>Windows Media Audio (WMA) is an audio data compression technology
developed by Microsoft as a part of the Windows Media framework.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The following table describes the supported image files.</p>
<table id="GUID-346964CB-AD9A-458D-9E00-2745385A387E"><title>Supported image
files</title>
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry><p>File extension</p></entry>
<entry><p>MIME type</p></entry>
<entry><p>Description</p></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>bmp</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/bmp</p></entry>
<entry><p>An image file format used to store digital images.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>gif</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/gif</p></entry>
<entry><p>Graphics interchange format (GIF) is a bitmap image format that
provides good-quality color images that take up a small amount of space.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>j2k</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/jp2</p></entry>
<entry><p>JPEG 2000 is a wavelet-based image compression standard.</p><p>Files
that contain JPEG 2000 code stream data for testing purposes might use the
filename extension j2k.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>jp2</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/jp2</p></entry>
<entry><p>Files that conform to the JPEG 2000 specification, ISO/IEC 15444-1,
use the standardized filename extension jp2.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>jpeg</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/jpeg</p></entry>
<entry><p>JPEG is a method for compressing photographic images.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>jpf</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/jp2</p></entry>
<entry><p>Another file name extension for JPEG 2000 files.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>jpg</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/jpeg</p></entry>
<entry><p>Another file name extension for JPEG files.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>jpx</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/jpx</p></entry>
<entry><p>Files that conform to the extended part-2 JPEG 2000 specification,
ISO/IEC 15444-2, use the filename extension jpx.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>mbm</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/x-epoc-mbm</p></entry>
<entry><p>A multi-bitmap is a container for a set of bitmap images. MBM files
can be used by Symbian applications to store graphical content.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>ota</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/vnd.nokia.ota-bitmap</p></entry>
<entry><p>Over-the-air (OTA) images.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>png</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/png</p></entry>
<entry><p>Portable networking graphics (PNG) is a bit map image format that
was designed for transferring images on the Internet.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>tif</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/tiff</p></entry>
<entry><p>Tagged image file format (TIFF) is a file format for storing images,
including photographs and line art.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>tiff</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/tiff</p></entry>
<entry><p>Another file name extension for TIFF files.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>wbmb</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/vnd.wap.wbmp</p></entry>
<entry><p>Wireless bitmap (WBMP) is a monochrome image file format that is
optimized for mobile devices. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>wmf</p></entry>
<entry><p>image/x-wmf</p></entry>
<entry><p>Windows metafile (WMF) is a graphics file format on Microsoft Windows
systems that is intended to be portable between applications and may contain
both vector and bitmap components.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The following table describes the supported streaming links.</p>
<table id="GUID-EDF212A0-68CC-45BE-9FA4-4B7927654113"><title>Supported streaming
links</title>
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry><p>File extension</p></entry>
<entry><p>MIME type</p></entry>
<entry><p>Description</p></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>asx</p></entry>
<entry><p>video/x-ms-asf</p></entry>
<entry><p>Advanced systems format (ASF) is a Microsoft proprietary digital
audio and digital video container format, especially meant for streaming media.
The most common file types contained within an ASF file are Windows media
audio (WMA) and Windows media video (WMV).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>sdp</p></entry>
<entry><p>application/sdp</p></entry>
<entry><p>Streaming Download Project Multimedia is a source project to allow
the download of streaming media.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>ram</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/vnd.rn-realaudio</p></entry>
<entry><p>RealAudio metadata (RAM) is typically a small text file that contains
a link to the audio stream.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The following table describes the supported playlist files.</p>
<table id="GUID-3F176A15-488C-470B-B97B-FCC4D36F2CCC"><title>Supported playlist
files</title>
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry><p>File extension</p></entry>
<entry><p>MIME type</p></entry>
<entry><p>Description</p></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>m3u</p></entry>
<entry><p>audio/x-mpegurl</p></entry>
<entry><p>Moving Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 Uniform Resource Locator,
MP3 URL is a computer file format that stores multimedia playlists.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<section id="GUID-1C3B1B9C-508F-42EC-ACBE-53898884810A"><title>See also</title><p><xref href="GUID-A825B62E-B5F6-5FDD-B267-E47103D57FD8.dita">Supported Image Formats Guide</xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-6021BE18-3416-55DF-A628-0071024D7586.dita">Video Renderer Resource File</xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-0A6C8413-8CED-512C-BED8-754D92A44FAC.dita">Querying for Parser Supported
Formats</xref></p></section>
</conbody></concept>