<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-53E5C9EA-0A38-54A1-AE24-95B71BFFB4B5" xml:lang="en"><title>CenRep
Converter Tool Tutorial</title><shortdesc>This topic describes the Central Repository Converter (<codeph>CenRepConv</codeph>)
tool. The CenRepConv tool is used to convert text files into binary files. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-D103CC8D-6871-46D1-B41E-85F5632324DC"><title>Overview</title> <p>The <codeph>CenRepConv</codeph> is an
emulator based tool. The <codeph>CenRepConv</codeph> tool can be used to convert
binary files to text files for debugging. The central repository initialisation
files are used to register the repositories with central repository. The initialisation
files can be either in text or binary format, although binary format is recommended
for better efficiency. For example, the loading time of a repository with
2000 settings on a H2 development board is 41ms for binary files and 485ms
for text files. </p> <p>The tool uses the file extension to identify the fomats. <codeph>TXT</codeph> is
used for the text file extension and <codeph>CRE</codeph> is used as the binary
file extension </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-89B11338-F42A-4704-9795-84A706DE12BB"><title>Command line syntax</title> <p>The syntax for text to binary
conversion is: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-B6AF4E5C-A007-5E23-A30E-8F006461A6C1" xml:space="preserve">CentRepConv  [-nowait]  [-o output_path]  [input_path\]&lt;repository_uid&gt;.txt</codeblock> <p>where, </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-3434EDE7-D5F9-5A0A-B67F-A37918304247"><p> <codeph> repository_uid</codeph> is
the UID of repository in hexadecimal format, for example 00000001 </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DE6793EF-7069-55AD-AEF2-5EFED65BD209"><p> <codeph>output_path</codeph> –
Optional, default is <codeph>C:\</codeph>. Note that if the user specifies
the output filename, then the extension must be .cre and the filename must
match the &lt;repository_uid&gt; of the input file. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-AA6CB0CD-8931-588F-B27A-E7EC60576B5D"><p> <codeph> -nowait</codeph> option
should be used when CentRepConv is invoked as part of an automated process
such as from a build script. It instructs CentRepConv not to wait for user
acknowledgement. Without this option the tool will wait for up to 30 seconds
for acknowledgement </p> </li>
</ul> <p>The syntax for bianary to text conversion is: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-F814EA9C-3063-5715-98F1-550E512BE023" xml:space="preserve">CentRepConv  [-nowait]  [-o output_path]  [input_path\]&lt;repository_uid&gt;.cre</codeblock> <p>where, </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-2EEC6C18-2CC6-530A-9B3F-6F86769D7E64"><p> <codeph> repository_uid</codeph> is
the UID of repository in hexadecimal format, for example 00000001 </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A8A8D7A7-64B3-5D06-A514-216CB0F7CA7D"><p> <codeph> input_path</codeph> is
optional, default is <codeph>C:\</codeph>. Note that location of path must
be a Symbian path, not a path of the PC’s native OS. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-6F952102-D662-56AD-AF06-72FE7188DADF"><p> <codeph> output_path</codeph> is
optional, default is <codeph>C:\</codeph>. Note that if the user specifies
the output filename, then the extension must be .txt and the filename must
match the &lt;repository_uid&gt; of the input file. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
<section id="GUID-E26646C2-2194-403C-ADAB-A8DBA5C3E88D"><title>Integrating CenRepConv tool</title> <p>This section describes
how to automate text to binary conversion whislt building the ROM. The group
folder must contain bld.inf file, extension makefile, script to invoke the
cenRepConv tool and the initialisation text file. </p> <ol id="GUID-31B7B304-6B48-5DAA-A72B-62260048CA3F">
<li id="GUID-D4D0CB8F-0FCE-52A8-87A6-435B9E44876C"><p>The bld.inf file must
contain: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-4DA91F35-AEE2-5D48-9E71-31A9FE613C66" xml:space="preserve">PRJ_PLATFORMS
DEFAULT

PRJ_MMPFILES
gnumakefile CreateBinaryRep.mk
</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-FF85D695-8733-58D7-BACC-BCB185045392"><p>The extension makefile
is configured as: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-C2BF6EC5-C293-5BF9-A5BF-4C4DB15B03CC" xml:space="preserve">do_nothing :
    rem do_nothing

MAKMAKE : do_nothing

RESOURCE : do_nothing

SAVESPACE : BLD

BLD : do_nothing

FREEZE : do_nothing

LIB : do_nothing

CLEANLIB : do_nothing

FINAL : 
    CreateBinaryRep.cmd build

CLEAN : 
    CreateBinaryRep.cmd clean

RELEASABLES :
    CreateBinaryRep.cmd releasables
</codeblock> </li>
<li id="GUID-1429DD28-07C3-5501-A644-B23ABEBD32E0"><p>The script file is used
to move the text files to the emulators folder, invoke the CenRepConv tool
and copy the binary folders into the central repository private folder. </p> <codeblock id="GUID-EEB8A24A-0357-5FE2-8FF8-E4583E3A9E4F" xml:space="preserve">@ECHO OFF
SET RETURNCODE=0

IF /I "%1"=="build" goto BUILD

IF /I "%1"=="clean" goto CLEAN

IF /I "%1"=="releasables" goto WHAT

echo error: unknown option %1 &gt;&amp;2
SET RETURNCODE=1
goto END

:WHAT
echo %EPOCROOT%epoc32\release\winscw\udeb\Z\private\10202BE9\1027431B.cre
goto END

:CLEAN
ERASE %EPOCROOT%epoc32\release\winscw\udeb\Z\private\10202BE9\1027431B.cre 2&gt;NUL
goto END

:BUILD
ERASE %EPOCROOT%epoc32\winscw\c\1027431B.cre 2&gt;NUL
ERASE %EPOCROOT%epoc32\release\winscw\udeb\z\private\10202BE9\1027431B.cre 2&gt;NUL
COPY 1027431B.txt %EPOCROOT%epoc32\winscw\c
CALL %EPOCROOT%epoc32\release\winscw\udeb\CentRepConv -nowait -o C:\1027431B.cre C:\1027431B.txt
IF exist %EPOCROOT%epoc32\winscw\c\1027431B.cre goto BLDSUCCESS
SET RETURNCODE=1
ECHO error: build fail &gt;&amp;2
goto END

:BLDSUCCESS
ERASE %EPOCROOT%epoc32\winscw\c\1027431B.txt
MOVE %EPOCROOT%epoc32\winscw\c\1027431B.cre %EPOCROOT%epoc32\release\winscw\udeb\z\private\10202BE9\1027431B.cre
goto END

:END
EXIT /B %RETURNCODE%
</codeblock> </li>
</ol> </section>
<section id="GUID-CD798B16-86D7-48E1-B40F-907B251A33CD"><title>Error codes</title> <p>The following are the error codes that
may occur during the text to binary conversion and vice versa. </p> <table id="GUID-B1A7F8DE-37AA-519F-8A87-EDB3DF80F99A">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Error condition</entry>
<entry>Leave Code</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>Input file corrupted </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <xref href="GUID-253F06EA-F14E-3A8E-BA4C-8E787B5F0670.dita"><apiname>KErrCorrupt</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Input file is not a Direct File Store </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <xref href="GUID-253F06EA-F14E-3A8E-BA4C-8E787B5F0670.dita"><apiname>KErrCorrupt</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>No input file specified </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <xref href="GUID-0BEA3647-7888-3612-A2D3-7E27AC405E29.dita"><apiname>KErrArgument</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Bad input file extension (not .txt or .cre) </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <xref href="GUID-0BEA3647-7888-3612-A2D3-7E27AC405E29.dita"><apiname>KErrArgument</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Input filename is not a valid UID </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <xref href="GUID-0BEA3647-7888-3612-A2D3-7E27AC405E29.dita"><apiname>KErrArgument</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Output filename does not match input filename </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <xref href="GUID-0BEA3647-7888-3612-A2D3-7E27AC405E29.dita"><apiname>KErrArgument</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Extension of output filename does not match extension of input filename
(if one is .txt and the other must be .cre) </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <xref href="GUID-0BEA3647-7888-3612-A2D3-7E27AC405E29.dita"><apiname>KErrArgument</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Output directory is in read only drive </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <xref href="GUID-0BEA3647-7888-3612-A2D3-7E27AC405E29.dita"><apiname>KErrArgument</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Cannot access input file because it is in private data cage </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <xref href="GUID-298F3C28-48F5-34EA-8843-C75E2ECF0480.dita"><apiname>KErrAccessDenied</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Cannot write output file because it is in private data cage </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <xref href="GUID-298F3C28-48F5-34EA-8843-C75E2ECF0480.dita"><apiname>KErrAccessDenied</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>Input file does not exist </p> </entry>
<entry><p> <xref href="GUID-298F3C28-48F5-34EA-8843-C75E2ECF0480.dita"><apiname>KErrAccessDenied</apiname></xref>  </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
</conbody></concept>