<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-AB69D251-7635-4325-BBCE-92F7AFC86DC2" xml:lang="en"><title>New
C++ APIs in Symbian^3</title><shortdesc>The following new C++ APIs are introduced in Symbian^3.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody><table id="GUID-2FD9A877-1A75-4ADD-8B9A-B2FA4A9EB7C4-GENID-1-4-1-1-6-1-3-1">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.23*"/><colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="1.93*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>API</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>


<row>
<entry><p><b>Beagle Variant Header APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides variant layer headers for the Beagle platform. For more
information, see <xref href="GUID-F495E5B1-C34B-315B-A834-8D8B883C0AE4.dita"><apiname>Beagle</apiname></xref>.</p></entry>
</row>









<row>
<entry><p><b>E-mail Widget API</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>ECom plugin API that Third-party e-mail solutions implement to publish
e-mail data to Home Screen widget. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>exFAT File System APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides the "exFAT" file system. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-1AA5A20B-7CDD-3EF1-86B0-0B66AB1CC94D.dita"><apiname>TVolFormatParam_exFAT</apiname></xref>. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Extended Content Publisher API</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides interfaces for Home Screen content publisher plug-ins.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>EUser High Level (EUserHL) Library APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides APIs to improve string handling, object creation and resource
management. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-D60B55FA-D8C1-559A-9D99-48845BE32A6C.dita">EUser
High Level Library</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>



<row>
<entry><p><b>Gstreamer Library APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides a development framework (<xref href="http://www.gstreamer.net/" scope="external">Open source Multimedia Framework</xref>) for creating applications
like media player, streaming media broadcasters and video editors. For more
information, see <xref href="GUID-60B9404B-5102-4FBB-A32F-55F2ACFD1481.dita">Gstreamer
Overview</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Haptics APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides methods for controlling the haptics feature of the Symbian
device. Both synchronous and asynchronous versions are provided for playing
various types of effects. Only synchronous methods are provided for other
functionalities, such as opening and closing an actuator, reserving and releasing
the haptics feature, and for getting various state and system information
from the haptics. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-1D3AB781-058D-353D-A5CB-49F968160BDF.dita"><apiname>CHWRMHaptics</apiname></xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Home Screen Widget Publisher API</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides support for publishing logo and description of a widget.</p></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><p><b>Libxm2 Library APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides APIs for XML processing, parsing and validation. For more
information, see <xref href="GUID-33D50AB9-AFA8-521F-8A85-031C24EA7D25.dita">Libxml2
Overview</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Location Centre Utility APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides the application, service and file launching services to
Location Centre. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-E941B121-6FA5-3E1C-828F-493CF451C400.dita"><apiname>CLcAppLauncher</apiname></xref>.</p></entry>
</row>




<row>
<entry align="justify"><p><b>NFC Discovery API</b></p></entry>
<entry align="justify"><p>Used for subscribing and discovering Tags and NDEF
messages.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="justify"><p><b>NFC Tag Extension API</b></p></entry>
<entry align="justify"><p>Provides implementation and access (read/write)
methods for different types of NFC targets.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="justify"><p><b>NDEF API</b></p></entry>
<entry align="justify"><p>Used for handling NDEF messages and accessing NDEF
messages on Tags. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="justify"><p><b>NFC Peer-to-Peer API</b></p></entry>
<entry align="justify"><p>Provides LLCP (Logical Link Control Protocol) API
for peer to peer communication between NFC devices.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="justify"><p><b>NFC Content Handler API</b></p></entry>
<entry align="justify"><p>ECOM plug-in interface for subscribing and receiving
NDEF messages.</p></entry>
</row>



<row>
<entry><p><b>OpenWF Composition APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Supports the open standard for layered graphics composition developed
by the <xref href="http://www.khronos.org/" scope="external">Khronos Group</xref>.
For more information, see <xref href="GUID-3B9AC7E9-3133-505F-9C1E-EB4BB4969838.dita">OpenWF
Composition Interface Overview</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>OpenWF Support APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides a Symbian-specific implementation of platform-specific
elements of the OpenWF-C specification and abstracts communication between
the OpenWF-C Engine and other Symbian graphics components. For more information,
see <xref href="GUID-83510B5B-9725-5272-BF51-23A089178DAC.dita">OpenWF Support
Component Overview</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><b>Puny Code Converter APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides support for converting the Unicode formatted domain names
to ASCII format that can be resolved by the external DNS server. For more
information, see <xref href="GUID-B008D6F3-DCC2-3715-AF89-50CF84BA8F88.dita"><apiname>TPunyCodeDndName</apiname></xref>.</p></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><p><b>SQLite 3 APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides an implementation of the native SQLite C APIs. For more
information, see <xref href="GUID-02C9C31A-6563-59E4-BF46-129F4ED95087.dita">SQLite
3</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>

<entry><p><b>Standard C++ Library (STLport v5) APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides a Standard C++ environment with IOStream and STL (Standard
Template Library) libraries that enable you to develop or port Standard C++
applications or libraries quickly and easily onto the Symbian platform. For
more information, see <xref href="GUID-2C5B58F2-6BD2-5C2B-8E1B-CFB3D7EB6ED9.dita">Standard
C++ Library (STLport v5)</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>




<row>
<entry><p><b>System State Manager Mapper Utility APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Provides a utility class for mapping UIDs, getting feature and system
states and <codeph>cenrep</codeph> values. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-E4676CCC-5066-3CC9-A6BB-594C45C7D6F7.dita"><apiname>CSsmMapperUtility</apiname></xref>.</p></entry>
</row>





<row>
<entry><p><b>User Prompt Service APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Allows device creators to choose whether security decisions (for
example, allowing an application to make a network connection) are processed
silently or require the user to be prompted. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-5329AE68-39E0-55E7-9878-2D8FF9E29B21.dita">User Prompt Service</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><p><b>XML DOM Engine and XPath APIs</b></p></entry>
<entry><p>Implements the standard DOM API (tree-based XML parsing and editing),
including XPath and serialization extensions. For more information, see <xref href="GUID-05A3E75B-25F9-54AC-8AF8-3E97F832E626.dita">XML DOM Engine</xref>.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></conbody><related-links>
<linklist>
<link href="GUID-13987218-9427-455E-AC77-ADE6B0E9CD7E.dita"><linktext>Introduction
to Symbian^3</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-6F1ED7D0-5F41-4587-89AA-8DDE7AEC916F.dita"><linktext>What's new
in Symbian^3</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-021E8B9C-4A1B-4C6D-B69E-4337A766C39A.dita"><linktext>Porting applications
to Symbian^3</linktext></link>
</linklist>
</related-links></concept>