<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="GUID-056736E0-3DF0-49FE-A44D-1A8E47FE45A0" xml:lang="en"><title>Switching
OFF the lights</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><taskbody>
<context>       <p>The<codeph> LightOffL()</codeph> method call switches OFF
the specified target light. Multiple light targets can be specified by using
bitwise-or.</p><p>The following code snippet demonstrates how to switch lights
OFF for infinite duration for multiple targets. Lights are switched OFF with
fade-out.</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">iLight-&gt;LightOffL( CHWRMLight::EPrimaryDisplay | CHWRMLight::EPrimaryKeyboard );</codeblock><p>The
following code snippet demonstrates how to switch OFF lights for the specified
duration for one target (Lights are switched OFF with fade-out):</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">// aDuration = 5000 milliseconds
light-&gt;LightOffL( CHWRMLight::ESecondaryDisplay, 5000 );</codeblock><p>After
the duration expires, if there has not been a previous infinite time duration
call in this session, the light state for target is changed to whatever state
was caused by the last infinite time duration call, or default state determined
by inactivity timer.</p><p>The following code snippet demonstrates how to
switch OFF lights for the specified duration for one target (fade-out is also
controlled):</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">// aDuration = 5000 milliseconds
// aFadeOut = EFalse means that lights turn off instantly and fade-out is not used, 
// ETrue means that lights smoothly fade-out.
light-&gt;LightOnL( CHWRMLight::ESecondaryDisplay, 5000, EFalse );</codeblock><note> All
devices do not support fade-out. In such scenario, the device behaves in its
default state.</note></context>
</taskbody></task>