<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-EDA831F7-7248-5C00-B6BE-B7F44097C9B6" xml:lang="en"><title>WhiteList/BlackList
TLD Services Overview</title><shortdesc>This document introduces the Whitelist/Blacklist Top-Level Domain
services of the InetURIList framework. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>International domain names support increases the vulnerability of the device
to homograph attacks (also called phishing), by allowing addresses (URIs)
to contain UTF-8 characters. By using non-ASCII characters that are visually
similar to familiar letters, attacks can lead the Internet user to harmful
sites. </p>
<p>To address this issue, the InetURIList framework provides a list of suspect
characters (a BlackList) for each top-level domain (TLD). The framework also
lists trusted characters in TLD-specific WhiteLists. This enables applications
to detect safe and unsafe URIs depending on their top-level domain and the
characters they contain. </p>
<p>The Blacklists and Whitelists are stored in an XML file installed on the
device. You can replace the default TLD policy file by installing an SIS package
containing the updated lists. </p>
<p>Applications can query the TLD list but cannot dynamically change its contents. </p>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-E97C2A7E-8E8F-58E6-99D4-288589385B44.dita"><linktext> Querying
the TLD policy data </linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-AC4C18D1-D6A3-5988-AB10-5A5025183950.dita"><linktext> Modifying
the TLD policy data</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-6A78F618-09A9-56A7-8C58-98C353BF0788.dita"><linktext>What is the
Domain Name Server?</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>