<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-8C134C72-0552-59FE-AA19-F72250A8A947" xml:lang="en"><title>CustomControls:
custom control example</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p> <b>Note: </b> This example only works properly with Techview and there
is no guarantee that it will work with other interfaces. </p>
<section id="GUID-FFDEB4FB-DFC9-4DB6-9987-D1140ADFA912"><title>Description</title> <p> <filepath>CustomControls</filepath> demonstrates
customised simple and compound UI Control Framework control classes. Compound
controls are used as on-screen containers for other controls, either simple
or compound. The custom controls are subclasses of the class <codeph>CCoeControl</codeph>,
with implementations of its virtual functions for construction, drawing, and
accepting user input. </p> <p>Note that the <filepath>CustomControls</filepath> example
has dependencies on GUI components that may not be present on all SDKs. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-C506CD9E-BB64-4038-A65B-218A1A8CE1DA"><title>Download</title><p>Click on the following link to download
the example: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/zips/guid-50a91c4c-d6c0-4699-9531-befb26574240.zip" scope="external">CustomControls.zip</xref></p><p>Click: <xref href="guid-6013a680-57f9-415b-8851-c4fa63356636/guid-50a91c4c-d6c0-4699-9531-befb26574240.html" scope="peer">browse</xref> to view the example code. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-842D73D6-9805-481A-BE65-28A0318B5E58"><title>Usage</title> <p>When the application starts, it displays
two smiling faces (smiley) controls. The mood of the smileys can be changed
by selecting a smiley using the left/right keys or pointer, and pressing space/clicking.
A dialog containing the smiley controls can be started from the application’s
menu. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-7C8B38C5-DFF0-4988-96D4-0BF3594D0F55"><title>Class Summary</title><p> <xref href="GUID-B06F99BD-F032-3B87-AB26-5DD6EBE8C160.dita"><apiname>CCoeControl</apiname></xref>  </p><p><xref href="GUID-A2BF9AE8-CF42-3D94-8763-66DB11EDDA46.dita"><apiname>MCoeControlObserver</apiname></xref> </p><p> <xref href="GUID-DC21E927-18B3-3BBF-9B67-496F2D158B03.dita"><apiname>CEikDialog</apiname></xref></p><p>  <xref href="GUID-1185F595-0488-3E93-8D60-6B3A1A3AC32E.dita"><apiname>CEikAppUi</apiname></xref>  </p><p><xref href="GUID-B33A8A56-D1BE-3E3D-B5AC-F644A5C764DB.dita"><apiname>CEikDocument</apiname></xref></p><p><xref href="GUID-E36E2F07-09E7-32BC-BB83-14DF9232E7D9.dita"><apiname>CEikApplication
 </apiname></xref></p></section>
</conbody></concept>