<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-CCFF2755-02EC-510B-A052-33ABA318B922" xml:lang="en"><title>Examples
of use</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>Text objects can be used for a variety of purposes. Some examples throughout
the Symbian platform and its standard applications include:</p>
<ul>
<li id="GUID-0FAFB638-FB94-5955-A879-B6297F4BA542"><p>word processor documents</p> <p>A
word processor document is a single rich text object, containing fields, pictures
and styles. This is the "classic" use of text content and views.</p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2E076BB5-0501-55AA-BA18-6454D7DF1D83"><p>spreadsheet cells</p> <p>A
spreadsheet contains a number of global text cells, each of which shares a
common paragraph and character format layer. This enables the text to be maintained
by text content and displayed using text views, but avoids duplicating format
layers.</p> </li>
<li id="GUID-EF8987E4-DE93-5531-867F-2318E696522A"><p>editor controls</p> <p>Editors
for rich and global text provide the functionality needed for editing text
objects, descriptors, and even text representations of floating point numbers
etc.</p> </li>
<li id="GUID-9B48DACD-A393-5796-9BE3-DD25812559AB"><p>agenda views</p> <p>The
complex requirements of the day view in the agenda application are met by
putting all text into a single rich text object, with appropriate formatting.
This allows the powerful facilities of text views to format the display neatly,
including such facilities as slot squashing, rounded highlights on bullets
etc.</p> <p>When an individual entry is edited, its own data is edited in
a separate rich text object. This is later pasted back into the view.</p> </li>
<li id="GUID-4A0E4173-7F13-56E2-BE4A-1E0DEC5715C6"><p>things which can contain
embedded objects</p> <p>Since rich text contains pictures, and rich text editors
allow these to be edited, any application can contain pictures in its data,
and can therefore embed objects, simply by using rich text to store its entry
data. Both the agenda and the database may contain rich text objects, which
allows their entries to contain pictures.</p> </li>
</ul>
<p>It is very easy to use rich text in an application. The system provides
enough flexibility to be tailored for specialist applications, such as the
spreadsheets stringent memory economy, or the agenda's complex views.</p>
<p>In the absence of an application engine, typically, two prerequisites for
the editing and layout of rich or global text are a text layout and a view.
The <xref href="GUID-CF377A98-F11F-380F-AD10-7F3E261D4421.dita"><apiname>CTextView</apiname></xref> and <xref href="GUID-FEE7C848-2E93-3848-A3DA-7EAA533615AF.dita"><apiname>CTextLayout</apiname></xref> classes
provide the engine for handling changes to formatting and content and for
drawing and updating the <keyword>text view</keyword>. They are optimised
for efficiency. </p>
</conbody></concept>