<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-7B9D4E46-6AF9-5B77-9BE3-8B1DFAC588BD" xml:lang="en"><title>Set Up</title><shortdesc>Set up the source code and project files for an implementation
of the USB client controller.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This topic describes how to set up the source code and project
files for an implementation of the USB client controller. </p>
<p>Another more complicated example is implemented in the OMAP/H4
platform. This platform has two USB device controllers. The code shows
how two UDCs can be supported in the same source and build tree. The
second controller (Fibula) is a High speed USB 2.0 compatible device
controller, the code demonstrates how to support a USB 2.0 UDC and
one or more USB 2.0 Client Devices. See the code in <filepath>...\omap-hrp\...</filepath>. </p>
<p>The suggested steps are as follows: </p>
<ol id="GUID-4850DC56-9ABA-5B34-8C5B-A314D0DB08B8">
<li id="GUID-883110DC-0314-590C-B8F9-0A0663615445"><p>Decide where
to put the source and header files for the platform-specific layer
. Normally the USB device controller is part of the ASSP, and you
would put the source files in the ASSP directory. For an external
USB device controller, you would use the Variant directory instead. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-BB60E177-D816-5EE1-BF93-A9DF4CB1BE86"><p>Implement the
platform-specific Layer within your chosen source and header files. </p> <p>If you have a header file with a name in the shape of <filepath>ASSP.h</filepath>, then you will put USB Device Controller register
definitions and register bit definitions here. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-01DDD063-64F5-57EF-A404-965127E612E2"><p>Define the <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file for the USB client controller (the PDD), and
put this into your chosen directory. Remember that the platform-specific
layer is just <i>part</i> of the USB client controller, and the <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file needs to contain a list of <i>all</i> source
files that need to be compiled. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-337F3E69-68C6-5A44-9406-59AFCA681F4E"><p>Add the name
of the <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file (without the file extension)
to your ASSP's <filepath>.inf</filepath> file in the <codeph>PRJ_MMPFILES</codeph> section. This must be in the same directory. This tells the <filepath>abld</filepath> tool about the existence of the <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file. </p> </li>
</ol>
</conbody></concept>