<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-C38DA704-8868-479B-AF81-375E0A2F5BCC" xml:lang="en"><title>Name</title><shortdesc>This document describes how names are assigned to device drivers.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-905BD0EF-85EB-4568-B810-0D0D40B3CFDA">             <p>Each
Symbian platform device driver has a name. When the driver is
loaded by the user, LDDs and PDDs register themselves using a name. LDDs and
PDDs have different names, which are used to identify the logical device and
physical device objects. </p> <p>The following shows how the example device
drivers set their names: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-83FA2EE4-2193-5D76-A5F8-BA26DCFEBE06" xml:space="preserve">_LIT(KDriverPddName," d_expio.pdd");

// Called while loading PDD
TInt DExH4PhysicalDevice::Install()
    {
    return SetName(&amp;KDriverPddName);
    }</codeblock> <codeblock id="GUID-B0A503EE-F823-51F4-B7BD-A9852E1B0864" xml:space="preserve">_LIT(KDriverName, " d_expio");

// Called while loading LDD
TInt DExDriverLogicalDevice::Install()
    {    
    return SetName(&amp;KDriverName);
    }</codeblock> <p>The framework uses driver names to identify the PDDs
that can be used with a given LDD. This can happen in two ways: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-0801CDDD-D1FB-531A-9361-97707C35C2D1"><p>The framework uses the
name of the PDD factory object passed by the user while creating the logical
channel. This requires a PDD with that name to be already loaded, and its
factory object created. The framework searches for a PDD factory object with
the specified name. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-A6049F4E-7DC1-5ED9-B40B-1985FF837469"><p>If the user does not
pass the PDD name explicitly, then the framework searches all PDD factory
objects that have a name in the form of x.y, where x is the name of the LDD
factory object. </p> </li>
</ul>     </section>
</conbody></concept>