<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-003D2C5B-09DC-5BD1-AF45-A0FCB56F567B" xml:lang="en"><title>ROMBUILD</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>ROMBUILD is the Symbian platform binary XIP (execute-in-place)
ROM builder. It is normally invoked through <xref href="GUID-E4447BEF-33D2-5099-BCC1-C72FBB3B0463.dita">BUILDROM</xref>,
the Symbian platform ROM configuration tool that acts as a front-end
to ROMBUILD. </p>
<section id="GUID-CFAB320B-5F0D-4E76-AD96-FE6EE8D3BE43"> </section>
<section id="GUID-06C4A9F7-E8D4-5A53-97BA-F3C2973B661A"><title>ROMBUILD
command syntax</title><p>If the OBY files are encoded in UTF-8 with
non-ASCII character support, use the following the ROMBUILD command
syntax:</p><codeblock id="GUID-379818BF-A17B-5CAF-A311-3EE4142EE51D-GENID-1-2-1-8-1-1-6-1-1-5-1-2-3-3" xml:space="preserve">ROMBUILD [options] [–oby-charset=utf-8 &lt;obyfile&gt;] [-datadrive=&lt;fat.oby&gt;]</codeblock><p>If the OBY files are encoded in local character set with non-ASCII
characters support, use the following the ROMBUILD command syntax:</p><codeblock id="GUID-B3A01582-9631-57C6-A654-D5539DF1AE54-GENID-1-2-1-8-1-1-6-1-1-5-1-2-3-5" xml:space="preserve">ROMBUILD [options] &lt;obeyfile&gt; [-datadrive=&lt;fat.oby&gt;]</codeblock> <p>The following command line <codeph>options</codeph> are supported: </p> <table id="GUID-321B472A-D58B-5348-A701-EA7E33E3A0B5">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>–argfile=&lt;parameter file&gt;</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Accepts a parameter file, which contains a list of command-line
parameters specific to the ROM tools, as input. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph> -? </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Displays more detailed help for the command. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-coff-header</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Uses a PE-COFF header instead of a Symbian platform header. PE-COFF is a Portable Executable–Common Object File
Format and is a Microsoft extension to the COFF standard. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph> -compress</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Compresses executable files where possible using the inflate
(Deflate, Huffman+LZ77) algorithm unless the <codeph>-compressionmethod</codeph> keyword is used to override the default (see below). </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-compressionmethod [none | inflate | bytepair]</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the compression algorithm to use. Can be used
either with the <codeph>-compress</codeph> keyword or alone. </p> <p><table id="GUID-34E5FD4C-7B82-5342-85C3-C84A706C8C17-GENID-1-2-1-8-1-1-6-1-1-5-1-2-3-7-1-3-5-2-2-1">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>none </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>No compression is used. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>inflate </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Compresses executable files using the default (Deflate,
Huffman+LZ77) algorithm. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>bytepair </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Compresses executable files using the bytepair algorithm.
Bytepair compression allows faster decompression than the default
Deflate, Huffman+LZ77 algorithm and supports demand paging by performing
compression and decompression of code in independent 4 KB pages. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>coreimage=&lt;core ROM image file&gt;</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Uses the specified core image file as the basis for creating
the ROM image extension. </p> <p>If the given core ROM image file
is invalid or does not exist, an error message is displayed. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-d&lt;bitmask&gt; </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Sets the trace bitmask; this only applies to debug builds. </p> <p>The simplest way of specifying this is to use a string of hexadecimal
characters starting with 0x (for example, 0x01234567). However, any
string that can be interpreted and translated into a valid TUint value
may be used. See the standard C function <codeph>strtoul()</codeph>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-lowmem</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Reduces the physical memory consumption during image generation. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-loglevel&lt;level&gt;</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Level of information to log file. The following valid log
levels are available: </p> <p><table id="GUID-6D12A1F6-70D6-5CAC-891F-CC0E98D21E70">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>0</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Default level of information to log file. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>1</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Logs the host or the ROM filenames, the file size, and the
hidden attribute in addition to the <codeph>loglevel 0</codeph> information. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph> 2</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Logs the E32 file header attributes such as UIDs, data size,
heap size, stack size, VID, SID, and priority in addition to the <codeph>loglevel 1</codeph> information. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-no-header </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Suppresses the image loader header. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-no-sorted-romfs </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Does not add sorted entry arrays (6.1 compatible). It is
a table of offsets for the subdirectories and files which are not
in the sorted order. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-r&lt;fileName&gt;</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Compares the generated ROM image with the ROM image whose
file name is specified. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-s[log|screen|both] </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Displays a summary of the size to the specified destination,
that is, to the log, to the screen or to both the log and the screen. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-v </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Verbose mode. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-wstdpath</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Displays a warning if a file is placed in a non-standard
directory when <codeph>PlatSecEnforceSysBin</codeph> is set to <codeph>OFF</codeph>.  </p><p> For example, the following instruction in
OBY file leads to a warning when <codeph>-wstdpath</codeph> is used
and <codeph>PlatSecEnforceSysBin</codeph> is <codeph>OFF</codeph>:</p><p><codeph>File=ABI_DIR/BUILD_DIR/hello.exe myfolder/bin/hello.exe</codeph></p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-j&lt;NUM_OF_WORKING_THREADS&gt;</codeph></p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the number of working threads that can run concurrently
to create a ROM image. The <codeph>&lt;NUM_OF_WORKING_THREADS&gt;</codeph> must be an integer in the range 1-128. </p> <p>If the <codeph>-j</codeph> option is not specified or an invalid value is specified, ROMBUILD
uses the following ways to determine the number of working threads: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-7B81919D-9F6A-5945-A311-EFDE7B0985F5"><p>If the <codeph>NUMBER_OF_PROCESSORS</codeph> environment variable is set correctly,
ROMBUILD uses the number of processors as the number of working threads. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-6C697962-2AE9-5AEC-950F-304ABE720501"><p>If the <codeph>NUMBER_OF_PROCESSORS</codeph> environment variable is not set or
is invalid, the default value <codeph>8</codeph> is used as the number
of working threads. </p> </li>
</ul> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>-gendep</codeph></p></entry>
<entry><p>Generates a dependencies file describing internal dependencies
among executables or dlls in a ROM image.</p><p><b>Note</b>: You can
only generate dependence information in the paged section of a ROM
image.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><codeph>-symbols</codeph></p></entry>
<entry><p>Generates symbols for each data or executable specified
in the OBY file. </p><p><b>Note</b>: The symbols file is not generated
by default.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p> <codeph>&lt;obeyfile&gt;</codeph> is a standard text file
containing statements that are used to control the operation of the
tool. </p> <p>See the <xref href="GUID-9CF985F1-C100-5999-9410-58B7865A1E18.dita">OBEY files</xref> reference for the full syntax. </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>