<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-AE486C82-8854-463F-8CB9-B7353D6B2804" xml:lang="en"><title>Baseport Template Build Guide</title><shortdesc>Describes how to build a Baseport Template.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The Baseport Template contains dummy functions. The Baseport Template
is designed to boot without supporting any peripherals. The developers
should port the individual drivers depending on the hardware used.
This guide describes a generic build procedure for ARMv5 based devices.</p>
<section id="GUID-E2165A61-5BC5-4334-918C-17DE643D7DC5"><title>Template
port</title>             <p>The baseport code is available at <filepath>os/kernelhwrrv/bsptemplate/asspandvariant/template_variant/</filepath>. The comments in the Baseport Template provide enough information
to start porting.</p>       </section>
<section id="GUID-4F0686BA-C7D4-45D1-B40F-648696B056A0"><title>Procedure</title><p>The following steps describe how to build the Baseport Template
for an ARMv5 processor.</p><ol>
<li id="GUID-DC469030-5658-4C24-B7A8-00249417F86E"><p>Create a file,
for example, <filepath>commands.txt</filepath> that contains the list
of files to be built. Each line of <filepath>commands.txt</filepath> would be in the following example format:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">-b \os\buildtools\toolsandutils\e32tools\group\bld.inf</codeblock></li>
<li id="GUID-091F9D98-20B3-49BB-8080-42E35C032154"><p>Call <filepath>commands.txt</filepath> file using the following command:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve">sbs –command=commands.txt –c armv5_urel</codeblock><note> The above
would produce a armv5 urel version.</note></li>
</ol></section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/Raptor_Build_System.dita"><linktext>Symbian Build System v2</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>