<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-455ED16F-D288-42C9-AA7A-AE5822F7A5BC" xml:lang="en"><title>Time Quickstart</title><shortdesc>Provides a brief overview of the contents of the Time platform
service.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p> Time platform service provides the state of the device
(mobile). It is controlled by a state machine that is SSM. These states
are defined by system state policies within a SSM plug-in and system
state changes are triggered by system-wide property changes or external
requests. </p>
<section id="GUID-E019BE30-391D-4055-B244-CFFB62C37E46-GENID-1-2-1-10-1-5-1-10-1-1-4-1-3-2">         
   <title>Concepts</title><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-CC79A63E-15DF-3437-983B-9A90966B3004.dita"><apiname>MRtcAdaptation</apiname></xref>: An SPI that allows customizing
of the functionality of Real Time Clock (RTC) adaptation interface. </p></li>
<li><p>Alarm Server: manages all alarms on the device and enables
client UI applications to use the services provided by the Alarm Server.
It relies on the Alarm UI to notify, which includes displaying and
playing sounds. </p></li>
<li><p>Alarm Client and Alarm Shared: are the static interface DLLs.
Alarm client is the client side of the Alarm Server, which allows
other components to interact with the Alarm Server. The Alarm Shared
facilitates a common format shared across server and its clients for
providing definition for an alarm. It consists of shared objects such
as alarm class, IPC messages, repeat definitions, alarm states. </p></li>
<li><p>System State Manager (SSM): manages the state of a device throughout
its lifecycle. SSM extends the existing Generic Start-up Architecture
(GSA) and also manages the system state and the system-wide property.</p></li>
</ul></section>
<section id="GUID-E019BE30-391D-4055-B244-CFFB62C37E46-GENID-1-2-1-10-1-5-1-10-1-1-4-1-3-3">         
   <title>Key uses for hardware implementators</title>           
 <ul>
<li><p>Including session alarms</p></li>
<li><p>Adding, updating and deleting alarms. </p></li>
<li><p>Performing alarm category-based operations such as retrieval
and deletion.</p></li>
</ul>         </section>
<section id="GUID-E019BE30-391D-4055-B244-CFFB62C37E46-GENID-1-2-1-10-1-5-1-10-1-1-4-1-3-4"><title>Key
uses for device creators</title>             <ul>
<li><p>Activating an alarm on a specific date.</p></li>
</ul>         </section>
</conbody></concept>