<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-CC04A14B-A839-5613-820D-F1E65EB2DF7F" xml:lang="en"><title>MAKSYM/MAKSYMROFS</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>MAKSYM/MAKSYMROFS tool is used to create a symbol file, which lists
the addresses of every global and exported function in the ROM. It
reads a log file to generate the symbol file. The log file contains
information about the contents of the ROM or ROFS image. </p>
<p>MAKSYM reads the log file which is created by ROMBUILD when building
a ROM image. MAKSYMROFS reads the log file which is created by ROFSBUILD
when building a ROFS image. The command syntax for MAKSYM and MAKSYMROFS
is the same. </p>
<section id="GUID-4ABD6DC7-7B5F-5E81-81F6-408F02FB8EA2"><title>MAKSYM
command syntax</title> <codeblock id="GUID-80510A94-15C8-55C3-99D9-5C82DEBF9269" xml:space="preserve">MAKSYM &lt;logfile&gt; [&lt;outfile&gt;]</codeblock> <table id="GUID-977669AC-2133-5573-9287-6B3741A86C8C">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>&lt;logfile&gt;</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This is the name of the log file generated by the <xref href="GUID-003D2C5B-09DC-5BD1-AF45-A0FCB56F567B.dita">ROMBUILD</xref> tool. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>&lt;outfile&gt;</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This is the name for the MAKSYM output file. If not specified,
it defaults to <filepath>&lt;ROMimagename&gt;.symbol</filepath>. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>By default, ROMBUILD produces a log file called <filepath>ROMBUILD.LOG</filepath>, which is passed to MAKSYM tool in the following
way: </p> <p><userinput>MAKSYM rombuild.log</userinput> </p> <p>This
will generate an output text file (Symbolic information file) called <filepath>&lt;romimagename&gt;.symbol</filepath>. </p> <p>The file contains all
the global variables along with their address and length. For example,
the start of <filepath>EKERN.EXE</filepath> looks like this: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-74AEE387-D6D3-51C6-8658-78B2A2DA0FF4" xml:space="preserve">From    \Epoc32\Release\Misa\UREL\ekern.exe

50003040    0094    _E32Startup
500030d4    002c    ImpDma::Init1(void)
50003100    0004    ImpDma::Init3(void)
50003104    0008    ImpDma::MaxBlockSize(void)
</codeblock> <p>In this example, the function <codeph>ImpDma::Init1()</codeph> starts at address <codeph>0x500030d4</codeph> and is <codeph>0x2c</codeph> bytes long. </p> <p> <b>Notes</b>: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-BD48C930-4051-5276-AB78-8CC5BADD65ED"><p>If you are distributing
ROM images for testing, it is also useful to supply the symbolic information
file for that image. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2B694850-0513-52B8-B477-78A08F4B83AE"><p>If you re-build
the ROM image you must also rebuild the symbolic information file
using MAKSYM. </p> </li>
</ul> </section>
</conbody></concept>