<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-627FC480-AF4F-4B23-8671-6E0A0DABA0EF" xml:lang="en"><title>Baseport Template Testing Guide</title><shortdesc>Explains how to test the Baseport Template implementation.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>There is no conformance testing suite available for Baseport Template.
However, Kernel testing (E32) and File system testing (F32) tests
should be run with 100% pass rate for any successful baseport. The
E32 and F32 tests are written to test the generic base code using
very minimal hardware services.  As a result, if the baseport cannot
pass the minimal requirements of the base code, it is unlikely that
it will be suitable for running a production device. </p>
<section id="GUID-D24E9188-EB9E-4543-88A3-029B33D0E652"><title>Baseport
Template tests</title><p>The Baseport Template is designed to boot
on any hardware. It should boot successfully, but clearly, the system
can do nothing more at this time. A successful boot shows that your
build environment has been set up correctly.</p><p>You can conduct
a series of tests to check if the template works correctly. To test
different functionality of the template, see:</p><ul>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-B1199AFF-F44F-440A-90D7-EAB5F982BD42.dita">DMA
Testing Overview</xref> for information on DMA testing.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-092F414B-2279-4ADB-970F-75DAB8A80BD7.dita">SDIO
Implementation Testing Guide</xref> for information on SDIO testing.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-A90D9D85-53DC-5368-89F2-137BE5D50745-GENID-1-2-1-8-1-1-7-1-1-4-1.dita">Kernel
API Validity Checks</xref> for information on testing the Kernel APIs. </p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-9D26E38F-5C7B-5330-A54B-8F97D0F204D0-GENID-1-2-1-8-1-1-7-1-1-5-1.dita">Performance
Logging</xref> for information on writing trace logs and testing the
performance.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-C8217A7B-D741-5452-B95B-57B8978AD152.dita">Validation</xref> for information on how to test a USB port.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-66E5F769-1156-54CA-94BC-8912159A1240.dita">Testing
the PRM PSL</xref> for information on how to test the Power Resource
Manager (PRM).</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="GUID-180973A1-5C0A-5A85-82CC-E6B739A7F207.dita">Platform
Specific Layer Validation</xref> for information on how to test a
port of the MMC Controller.</p></li>
</ul></section>
</conbody></concept>