<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-6843109A-1567-5287-9AFF-3AE5E80334AF" xml:lang="en"><title>Keyword reference (S-Z)</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>This page lists the keywords starting from S to Z. </p>
<section id="GUID-41316071-4988-5E48-896C-61F7E6E766DD"><title>secondary</title> <codeblock id="GUID-512F128C-4794-576B-9638-58270CA31F19" xml:space="preserve">secondary = &lt;source-file&gt; &lt;destination-image-file&gt; [File-attribute-list] [Override-Attribute-list]</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild only</i>  </p> <p>A standard executable file that
is loaded by the kernel; this is the file server. All subsequent files
can be loaded through the file server. </p> <p>As with all standard
executable files, this is loaded, relocated and stripped of its relocation
information. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-D31658A3-6346-5BBE-B79C-D274113C6120"><title>section</title> <p> <i>rombuild only</i>  </p> <p>ROMs can be sectioned into two
parts allowing the upper part of the ROM to be switched for language
variations and file patching. This is independent of the extension
ROM mechanism. </p> <p>This keyword appears at the point in the obey
file where the ROM to be split. All files before this line appear
in the first (constant) section: Files after appear in the second
(patch/language) section. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-FBB17172-11E6-53AC-A833-7DEF02EFA57E"><title>SECTION2</title> <codeblock id="GUID-8A665DE5-9F68-5DB6-8F47-23CB9B32D03F" xml:space="preserve">SECTION2 &lt;anything&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>BUILDROM only</i>  </p> <p>Provides support for <codeph>rombuild</codeph>'s capability to create ROMs divided into two sections. </p> <p>The
two sections are termed the upper and lower section. The upper section
can be replaced without needing to change the lower section. This
facility is most often used to put localised resource files into the
upper section. This keyword provides <codeph>BUILDROM</codeph>'s support
for gathering marked obey source lines and placing them in the upper
section of the ROM. </p> <p>All lines beginning with the <codeph>SECTION2</codeph> keyword are removed from the <filepath>.iby</filepath> file and
are placed into a separate list with the <codeph>SECTION2</codeph> keyword removed. When <codeph>BUILDROM</codeph> encounters the <xref href="GUID-6843109A-1567-5287-9AFF-3AE5E80334AF.dita#GUID-6843109A-1567-5287-9AFF-3AE5E80334AF/GUID-D31658A3-6346-5BBE-B79C-D274113C6120">section</xref> keyword, the accumulated <codeph>SECTION2</codeph> list is inserted after the <xref href="GUID-6843109A-1567-5287-9AFF-3AE5E80334AF.dita#GUID-6843109A-1567-5287-9AFF-3AE5E80334AF/GUID-D31658A3-6346-5BBE-B79C-D274113C6120">section</xref> line, and subsequent <codeph>SECTION2</codeph> keywords
are removed as they occur. If no <xref href="GUID-6843109A-1567-5287-9AFF-3AE5E80334AF.dita#GUID-6843109A-1567-5287-9AFF-3AE5E80334AF/GUID-D31658A3-6346-5BBE-B79C-D274113C6120">section</xref> keyword is found the accumulated <codeph>SECTION2</codeph> list is emitted after the end of the input file(s). </p> <p>For
example: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-F284667A-1538-5963-9906-D6A3717B43BF" xml:space="preserve">LANGUAGE_CODE 01
LANGUAGE_CODE 10
DEFAULT_LANGUAGE 10
file=sourcedir\myapp.dll destdir\myapp.dll
SECTION2 REM bitmaps for myapp
SECTION2 bitmap=MULTI_LINGUIFY( MBM sourcedir\myapp destdir\myapp )
file=sourcedir\myengine.dll destdir\myengine.dll
section 0x800000
file=sourcedir\example destdir\example
SECTION2 data=sourcedir\example2 destdir\example2
      </codeblock> <p>becomes: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-73534907-1DC4-5CCB-B6FA-9C13F56196EC" xml:space="preserve">file=sourcedir\myapp.dll destdir\myapp.dll
file=sourcedir\myengine.dll destdir\myengine.dll

section 0x800000
REM bitmaps for myapp
data=sourcedir\myapp.M01_rom destdir\myapp.M01
data=sourcedir\myapp.M10_rom destdir\myapp.MBM

file=sourcedir\example destdir\example
data=sourcedir\example2 destdir\example2
</codeblock> <p>See also <xref href="GUID-616C3426-A8C4-5653-912D-7150944E5836.dita#GUID-616C3426-A8C4-5653-912D-7150944E5836/GUID-977C6041-365A-5D23-A370-A9939689FFD7">MULTI_LINGUIFY</xref>. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-908AECD2-5F98-55B9-BFFF-E25D7AA90D50"><title>sectorsize</title> <codeblock id="GUID-248A8CFB-23B7-540B-9F20-6CAFC7A4292A" xml:space="preserve">sectorsize=&lt;number of bytes&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>rofsbuild only</i>  </p> <p>Configures the number of bytes
in each sector for the file system in data-drive images. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-0E5CF5E6-0547-5185-9AE8-B6BF57802017"><title>singlekernel</title> <codeblock id="GUID-B1B9F517-46B2-5F5B-9F63-0E6E3D7A1CE9" xml:space="preserve">singlekernel</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild only</i>  </p> <p>Specifies that this ROM image
has one kernel executable within it. This is the default. </p> <p>Note that this keyword is mutually exclusive with <xref href="GUID-616C3426-A8C4-5653-912D-7150944E5836.dita#GUID-616C3426-A8C4-5653-912D-7150944E5836/GUID-B97ECBBE-B28F-5241-9D78-DBA20108BB14">multikernel</xref> keyword. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-AD2096D6-D991-5044-83E2-1E47411227DD"><title>sisfile</title> <codeblock id="GUID-563E57B0-8B13-558D-96C1-75F259FAE99E" xml:space="preserve">sisfile = &lt;source-file&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>BUILDROM only</i>  </p> <p>Specifies the <filepath>sis</filepath> files to be installed on the data drive. </p> <p> <b>Note</b>: A
directory containing <filepath>sis</filepath> files can also be provided
as input to this keyword. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-04F39AC1-3947-5C80-90BB-55CDF4D34571"><title>spidata</title> <codeblock id="GUID-A35138A6-58F5-5EB8-8337-5DFB8B3CE65E" xml:space="preserve">spidata = &lt;source-file&gt; &lt;original-destination-file&gt; &lt;spi-id&gt; &lt;target-spi-dir&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>BUILDROM only</i>  </p> <p>Specifies input files used to
create a static plug-in information (SPI) file. </p> <p>Its parameters
are: </p> <table id="GUID-D4D2480C-19EF-57F0-8F1A-7C7F173DAABA">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>source-file</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The location of the source file. This is the resource file
to build into the SPI file. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>original-destination-file</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The location that the resource should be placed in if the
SPI file is not created. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>spi-id</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Name of the SPI file in which the resource should be stored.
For ECom, this is <filepath>ecom.spi</filepath>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>target-spi-dir</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The directory in which to create the SPI file in the ROM
image. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>An SPI file concatenates several resource files together.
It is currently used to record the ECom plug-ins that are in ROM.
This allows the ECom framework to register the ROM-based plug-ins
without having to scan the file system for individual resource files.
IBY files are not expected to use the <codeph>spidata</codeph> keyword
directly for this purpose: instead, they should use the <codeph>ECOM_PLUGIN</codeph> macro (see <xref href="GUID-A27BD4D8-8B0E-57C8-9C15-736109297DEA.dita#GUID-A27BD4D8-8B0E-57C8-9C15-736109297DEA/GUID-92EAD7F7-6524-57BF-9417-B455AF469C7A">__ECOM_PLUGIN</xref>) which <codeph>BUILDROM</codeph> converts to
the required <codeph>spidata</codeph> statement. </p> <p>Note that
creation of SPI files is optional (see <xref href="GUID-E4447BEF-33D2-5099-BCC1-C72FBB3B0463.dita">BUILDROM</xref>).
If it is switched on: </p> <ul>
<li id="GUID-64974587-F170-5AE0-8465-1E660D62BBDC"><p>the <codeph>spidata</codeph> statements are processed to determine which SPI
files need to be created. <xref href="GUID-922E4771-C1FD-5C88-9C11-57499684DB97.dita">spitool</xref> is
called to create an SPI file, and a data statement is generated in
the final IBY file to include an SPI file in ROM. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-66FAF689-CAE1-5D4B-926F-D157410C0DD3"><p>copies of each
SPI file are placed in the same directory as the created ROM image.
This is necessary for the possibility of creating extension/composite
ROMs. </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-2E615A16-5F25-5CEB-A4A5-369594E3575F"><p>any resource
files included in an SPI file are not placed in the ROM image. This
avoids duplication and an unnecessary increase in the size of the
ROM. </p> </li>
</ul> <p>If SPI creation is switched off all resource files are placed
in the ROM image in the locations specified by the <codeph>&lt;original-destination-file&gt;</codeph> parameters of the <codeph>spidata</codeph> statements. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-E54F3C5D-ED40-5196-8D9C-6B7B71826F79"><title>spidatahide</title> <codeblock id="GUID-B0AFC9FE-A750-57F5-AA4E-E8757F0616B4" xml:space="preserve">spidatahide = &lt;source-file&gt; &lt;spi-id&gt; &lt;target-spi-dir&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>BUILDROM only</i>  </p> <p>Specifies the files that need
to be marked as hidden in the static plug-in information (SPI) file,
to hide the associated ECom plug-in in the ROM. </p> <p>Its parameters
are: </p> <table id="GUID-A0D56D11-CE2C-583F-B88E-20D8CAAF898D">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>source-file</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The location of the source file to be marked as hidden in
the SPI file. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>spi-id</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The SPI file name in which the resource should be stored.
For ECom, this is <filepath>ecom.spi</filepath> or <filepath>ecom.snn</filepath>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>target-spi-dir</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The directory in which to create the SPI file in the ROM
image. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>The file is marked as hidden in the SPI file by writing
the data length of the file as 0. A resource language file can be
overridden using this keyword in the IBY file. If you intend to hide
both the resource file and the DLL, use the <codeph>HIDE_ECOM_PLUGIN</codeph> macro (see <xref href="GUID-616C3426-A8C4-5653-912D-7150944E5836.dita#GUID-616C3426-A8C4-5653-912D-7150944E5836/GUID-50550839-5F46-5096-98A4-857B62E19C34">_HIDE__ECOM_PLUGIN</xref>), which enables <codeph>BUILDROM</codeph> to generate the required <codeph>spidatahide</codeph> statement. </p> <p>Note that creation of SPI files is optional (see <xref href="GUID-E4447BEF-33D2-5099-BCC1-C72FBB3B0463.dita">BUILDROM</xref>).
If <codeph>BUILDROM</codeph> is allowed to generate the SPI files,
the <codeph>spidatahide</codeph> statements are processed to determine
which resource file should be hidden in the SPI files that are to
be created. The <codeph>BUILDROM</codeph> calls the <codeph>spitool</codeph> to create an SPI file, and a <codeph>data</codeph> statement is
added to the final <filepath>.IBY</filepath> file to include the SPI
file in the ROM. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-1D2BBB97-2406-55D2-AEAB-4A584EEB3808"><title>srecordbase</title> <codeblock id="GUID-1C267252-68BB-5619-9532-467873276926" xml:space="preserve">srecordbase = &lt;hex-address&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild only</i>  </p> <p>Destination address for S-record
download. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-B784EA89-934C-55CB-9819-A28B98E4F5FA"><title>srecordfilename</title> <codeblock id="GUID-C315C23F-B9EA-5026-8FC3-6E9EA62F52FB" xml:space="preserve">srecordfilename = &lt;srec-file-name&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild only</i>  </p> <p> <codeph>rombuild</codeph> can
write an image in Motorola S-record format. This happens if a name
for the output file is specified here. A filename of "*" can be specified,
which means use the file name specified on the <xref href="GUID-43852F38-4841-5E6F-927B-A38ED4424F0C.dita#GUID-43852F38-4841-5E6F-927B-A38ED4424F0C/GUID-29BEF45C-2361-5245-9184-0261B99B6FB1">romname</xref> keyword and append <filepath>.screc</filepath>. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-205BE385-1937-5034-9DBE-51D1A276326A"><title>stack</title> <codeblock id="GUID-C78890E1-4E75-5891-A933-A22085A456C2" xml:space="preserve">stack = &lt;hex-size&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild only</i>  </p> <p>Overrides the default stack size
for the executable. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-2F8E864B-0754-566B-9F88-3FC44E4ECF91"><title>stackreserve</title> <codeblock id="GUID-A8699692-D710-55C7-96C2-7C0C7767D1C9" xml:space="preserve">stackreserve = &lt;hex-size&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild only</i>  </p> <p>Overrides the maximum size of
the stack. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-0D56F068-91DE-50C8-94FF-9744B5E5B3E6"><title>stop</title> <codeblock id="GUID-4FB3979B-FF24-56C7-8F56-F9FC6FE9D71D" xml:space="preserve">stop</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild and rofsbuild</i>  </p> <p>Stops processing the
obey file. The rom image is not generated. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-39410510-6C93-5203-8577-5C4D1520517F"><title>time</title> <codeblock id="GUID-96248FC4-DA06-5EF4-AA22-33E08F14BCFC" xml:space="preserve">time = dd/mm/yyyy hh:mm:ss</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild and rofsbuild</i>  </p> <p>If specified, overwrites
the date-time stamp of the ROM image with this value. If not specified,
the image is time and date stamped from the system clock of the build
PC. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-B375C7B6-DFA5-593C-8BEC-763789B89CE0"><title>TODAY</title> <codeblock id="GUID-D9B15174-1313-570F-AB87-4D9B441B8705" xml:space="preserve">TODAY</codeblock> <p> <i>BUILDROM only</i>  </p> <p>A pre-defined substitution. This
is replaced with today's date in the format <codeph>dd/mm/yy</codeph>  </p> <p>Note that there is no UNDEFINE facility, and substitutions
are applied in an unspecified order. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-31DD609C-5C70-5626-B892-5FD7BA63B640"><title>trace</title> <codeblock id="GUID-8F0E90BB-5880-5A62-94CE-2DF8CA354EC7" xml:space="preserve">trace = &lt;32 bit hex-number&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild and rofsbuild</i>  </p> <p>Turns on rombuild tracing.
This is internal to Symbian. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-A53DC5BA-7531-53F4-9117-4F26D372F212"><title>uid1</title> <codeblock id="GUID-510DD6AA-ACDC-53B6-A246-EA072069969E" xml:space="preserve">uid1 = &lt;uid-value&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild only</i>  </p> <p>Overrides the first UID for the
executable. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-342B6CA5-8508-5673-900F-9CF331F5AC79"><title>uid2</title> <codeblock id="GUID-B641C5A8-B032-528E-9AE4-E354B2238759" xml:space="preserve">uid2 = &lt;uid-value&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild only</i>  </p> <p>Overrides the second UID for the
executable. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-6F5B7223-A8E2-51EC-B950-79426DB0AAB4"><title>uid3</title> <codeblock id="GUID-66016978-0FDB-5620-A378-024C62BC7E86" xml:space="preserve">uid3 = &lt;uid-value&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild only</i>  </p> <p>Overrides the third UID for the
executable. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-AF6440C5-839B-5CC7-A645-405F34BC643F"><title>unicode</title> <codeblock id="GUID-8D9D383D-A8BA-5194-BDFB-27AC8C99E322" xml:space="preserve">unicode</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild only</i>  </p> <p>Indicates that this is a Unicode
build; this is the default if not present and <xref href="GUID-B9698943-0D4E-5B18-B7E4-448A0E21876A.dita#GUID-B9698943-0D4E-5B18-B7E4-448A0E21876A/GUID-A97C37B0-8909-58FA-9BC2-2BD68F25A8B0">ascii</xref> is not coded. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-AE7F4574-69AD-4817-A15D-A4560BA210D6"><title>unpaged</title><p><codeph>unpaged</codeph></p><p><i>rombuild and rofsbuild</i></p><p>Use the <codeph>unpaged</codeph> keyword to specify that the executable
is not paged. This is the same as specifying both <codeph>unpagedcode</codeph> and <codeph>unpageddata</codeph> keywords for an executable.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-6423A7D6-1129-49A1-882E-64C5182A197F"><title>unpagedcode</title><p><codeph>unpagedcode</codeph></p><p><i>rombuild and rofsbuild</i></p><p>Use the <codeph>unpagedcode</codeph> keyword to specify that
the executable is not code paged. </p></section>
<section id="GUID-F6B182CA-4042-4E03-8718-893423913EB8"><title>unpageddata</title><p><codeph>unpageddata</codeph></p><p><i>rombuild and rofsbuild</i></p><p>Use the <codeph>unpageddata</codeph> keyword to specify that
the data in the executable is not <xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/main/documentation/reference/s3/pdk/GUID-1391CDCC-9A09-54FB-BA7D-BC7A91DB2351.html" scope="external">data paged</xref>. </p></section>
<section id="GUID-434D1F4F-5CA5-5793-9119-8C89A8C0B251"><title>variant[[HWVD]]</title> <codeblock id="GUID-C5ACF3A5-68ED-52AA-8705-73236AA4BF5B" xml:space="preserve">variant[[HWVD]] = &lt;source-file&gt; &lt;destination-image-file&gt; [File-attribute-list] [Override-Attribute-list]</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild only</i>  </p> <p>Defines hardware variants. </p> <p>It should be applied to the variant DLL. The <filepath>ecust.dll</filepath> of each hardware variant to be supported, and must specify a suitable <codeph>HWVD</codeph>. Note that the HWVD must be enclosed within square
brackets. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-6CD93289-02BF-57B9-8BD4-CFC0FF1EB3E0"><title>version</title> <codeblock id="GUID-997783A0-4F8F-5749-96ED-1BB3B3BFBD50" xml:space="preserve">version = [ &lt;major&gt; ] [ .&lt;minor&gt; ] [ (&lt;build&gt;) ]</codeblock> <p> <i>rombuild and rofsbuild</i>  </p> <p>The ROM version number
as represented by its three component values. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-169AE2D3-6382-5262-A763-E68B1678967F"><title>volume</title> <codeblock id="GUID-B05502B6-5EE5-5AA6-9339-C09B4D519A51" xml:space="preserve">volume=&lt;volume label&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>rofsbuild only</i>  </p> <p>Configures the volume label for
the file system in data-drive images. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-821B5D5B-D800-5CB1-BFF1-7AD0D1402CC6"><title>WARNING</title> <codeblock id="GUID-5D46FA03-B8E5-5925-AD86-7A5EC63D2B26" xml:space="preserve">WARNING &lt;anything at all&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>BUILDROM only</i>  </p> <p>Prints the rest of the line following
the WARNING keyword to standard output, and reports the source file
name and the line number. </p> </section>
<section id="GUID-996F3E94-4AB8-599A-A3BD-4F4621F0CB98"><title>zdriveimagename</title> <codeblock id="GUID-09B31D56-01F9-5F6E-A999-963A91EA382B" xml:space="preserve">zdriveimagename = &lt;image name.img&gt;</codeblock> <p> <i>BUILDROM only</i>  </p> <p>Specifies the name of the Z drive
description image file( ROM, ROFS, extension ROFS or CORE image). </p> </section>
</conbody></concept>