<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-AABC7605-9EE9-41E4-BFDF-77A589A9887B" xml:lang="en"><title>Building
a DMA Adaptation</title><shortdesc>This document describes what is needed to include the DMA adaptation
in a ROM image.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>When building a ROM image, all the processes and data needed to execute
a build are included in a single file. This file is executed by the platform
when the hardware is powered up.</p>
<section id="GUID-72D93CEF-4E7D-473B-B607-ACBC0071DF6D-GENID-1-2-1-10-1-5-1-5-1-1-8-1-8-1-3-2"><title>Requirements</title><ul>
<li><p>DMA framework.</p></li>
<li><p>You must be familiar with building a ROM for the Symbian platform.</p></li>
</ul></section>
<section id="GUID-D627B27F-CCFE-42A0-856C-7B09E873BAE1-GENID-1-2-1-10-1-5-1-5-1-1-8-1-8-1-3-3"><title>Use the template
port to start your port</title><p>There is a template DMA Framework consisting
of the source file <filepath>dmapsl.cpp</filepath>, and the <filepath>.mmp</filepath> file <filepath>dma.mmp</filepath> located
in the directory<filepath> ...\template\dma</filepath> that can be used as
the starting point for your DMA PSL port. You need to: </p><ul>
<li><p>Decide which directory your DMA PSL and associated<filepath>.mmp</filepath> file
are to be stored in. You would normally choose the Variant or the ASSP directory.</p></li>
<li><p>Copy the template framework into your chosen location. Be aware that
the template <filepath>dma.mmp</filepath> file contains relative paths that
must be updated.</p></li>
<li><p>Change the Variant's <filepath>bld.inf</filepath> file to include a
reference to your <codeph>mmp</codeph> file.</p></li>
</ul></section>
<section id="GUID-E4423114-056C-4874-8FF2-53EB1FF5F074-GENID-1-2-1-10-1-5-1-5-1-1-8-1-8-1-3-4"><title>Building the
ROM with DMA included</title><p>Include the <filepath>DMA PIL</filepath> libraries
in the final ROM image, in the list of buildrom parameters.</p><p>For more
information, refer to <xref href="GUID-E4447BEF-33D2-5099-BCC1-C72FBB3B0463.dita">BUILDROM</xref> .</p></section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-0ADC2927-5AC9-5461-9A17-382FBB170067.dita"><linktext>ROM Tools
Overview</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-E4447BEF-33D2-5099-BCC1-C72FBB3B0463.dita"><linktext>BUILDROM</linktext>
</link>
</related-links></concept>