<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-C661BFA4-6C39-476A-8DE0-08E18AA0F548" xml:lang="en"><title>IIC Overview</title><shortdesc>Provides a basic summary of the Inter-Integrated Circuit
(IIC) platform service. </shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The IIC is a technology-independent interface for serial bus technologies.
The IIC supports multi-master and multi-slave serial interfaces, used
by the low power peripherals to exchange control information between
devices attached to the bus. The IIC supports different modes of data
transfer.</p>
<section id="GUID-E67D9AC2-DD3D-48FD-9E48-B79BC73FFE6A-GENID-1-2-1-10-1-5-1-6-1-1-3-1-3-2"><title>What
is the IIC platform service</title>             <p>The IIC platform
service provides a set of functions for device drivers to be able
to use serial interfaces without needing to know the details of the
actual chipset implementing the particular serial interface technology,
for example I2C or SPI. The client will however need to understand
how to configure headers for the particular interface technology.</p><p>For the technical details about IIC, see the <xref href="GUID-DCDD68C7-8EBE-4E91-A983-076460B2C2F3.dita">IIC Quick Start</xref>.</p>         </section>
<section id="GUID-C0FC9485-8B8C-4F4B-99C0-DAA48FB5E85D"><title>Need
for the IIC platform service</title><p>IIC is used in a number of
different areas in the OS. These may include:</p><ul>
<li><p>controlling flash memory devices</p></li>
<li><p>controlling the LCD</p></li>
<li><p>reading data from the Real Time Clock.</p></li>
</ul><p>The IIC platform service gives a common set of functions to
initiate a connection and to transfer the data.</p></section>
<section id="GUID-CEAC0FBB-77F6-48FF-AB70-0E2AB78CA972"><title>IIC
users</title><p>The IIC documentation covers two types of user: </p><p><ul>
<li><p>those that want to write device drivers </p></li>
<li><p>those that need to write SHAI implementation code to interface
to their particular IIC chipset.</p></li>
</ul></p></section>
<section id="GUID-0D17421E-77CC-47CC-A50A-DE9F8E7020BF"><title>Limitations</title><p>IIC is an abstraction interface for several different serial bus
communication technologies. There may be features of a particular
technology that are not available through IIC. IIC imposes no throughput
limitations. </p></section>
</conbody></concept>