<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-10C986FD-BD56-4F8E-87EC-7B890EFCDAC7" xml:lang="en"><title>DMA Chipset Configuration</title><shortdesc>Chipset configuration is performed entirely within the
platform service implementation.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The DMA controller chipset has multiple DMA channels that can be
configured for different DMA transfers. Drivers generally initialize
and open the required DMA channel and use this channel to do the DMA
transfers. </p>
<p>For some peripherals, such as the Camera and the Display controller,
there can be dedicated DMA channels that cannot be configured for
DMA transfers by other peripherals. </p>
<p>To configure the channels and other features of the chipset, you
may need to write code. This code should be executed prior to the
DMA channels being used for the first time, or to configure dynamically-allocated
channels.</p>
<p>This requires chipset specific code which is beyond the scope of
this documentation. Please refer to your chipset's datasheet and any
accompanying documentation for details on how to perform any required
chipset configuration.</p>
<p><note>If you need to perform chipset configuration after the device
driver has loaded, there is an <xref href="GUID-93A3F01A-3489-37E5-921C-5EA5228545AA.dita"><apiname>Extension()</apiname></xref> function.
This function passes chipset specific code or instructions from the
client to the platform service implementation. Implementation of the <xref href="GUID-93A3F01A-3489-37E5-921C-5EA5228545AA.dita"><apiname>Extension()</apiname></xref> API is platform specific and is not covered
further in this documentation.</note></p>
</conbody></concept>