<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-6786C7D8-34B9-496C-890E-03DE018D2DE1" xml:lang="en"><title>IIC Testing Guide</title><shortdesc>Describes how to test an IIC platform service implementation</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The IIC bus has a standard <xref href="http://www.nxp.com/acrobat/literature/9398/39340011.pdf.dita">IIC
bus specification v2-1 Jun 2000</xref>. For generic testing, there
is also an IIC test harness.</p>
<section id="GUID-02B42C64-BA3B-493D-97A0-8FF4430DD6DC"><title>IIC
test source files</title><p>The following test code is available to
test an IIC port.</p><table id="GUID-9F373E0B-6A39-494C-A421-4041F1765724">
<tgroup cols="4"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.00*"/><colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.44*"/><colspec colname="col3" colwidth="1.12*"/>
<colspec colname="col4" colwidth="0.44*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry align="center" valign="top"><p><b>File</b></p></entry>
<entry align="center" valign="top"><p><b>Description</b></p></entry>
<entry align="center" valign="top"><p><b>Location</b></p></entry>
<entry align="center" valign="top"><p><b>Usage</b></p></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p>t_iic.exe</p></entry>
<entry><p>This file interacts with test-specific LDD to instigate
tests of functionality that would normally be invoked by kernel-side
device driver clients of the IIC</p></entry>
<entry><p>/sf/os/kernelhwsrv/kerneltest/e32test/iic/t_iic.cpp</p></entry>
<entry><p>Mandatory</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>iic_client_ctrless.ldd</p></entry>
<entry><p>Kernel-side proxy LDD acting as a client of the IIC.</p></entry>
<entry><p>/sf/os/kernelhwsrv/kerneltest/e32test/iic/t_iic.cpp</p></entry>
<entry><p>Mandatory</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>iic_slaveclient_ctrless.ldd</p></entry>
<entry><p>Kernel-side proxy LDD acting as a slave client of the IIC.</p></entry>
<entry><p>/sf/os/kernelhwsrv/kerneltest/e32test/iic/t_iic.cpp</p></entry>
<entry><p>Mandatory</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>iic_client.ldd</p></entry>
<entry><p>Kernel-side proxy LDD acting as a client of the IIC.</p></entry>
<entry><p>/sf/os/kernelhwsrv/kerneltest/e32test/iic/t_iic.cpp</p></entry>
<entry><p>Mandatory</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>iic_slaveclient.ldd</p></entry>
<entry><p>Kernel-side proxy LDD acting as a slave client of the IIC.</p></entry>
<entry><p>/sf/os/kernelhwsrv/kerneltest/e32test/iic/t_iic.cpp</p></entry>
<entry><p>Mandatory</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><p>The above test system consists of the executable (t_iic.exe)
and associated ldd files. The default version of t_iic.exe is used
to test that the platform independent layers of the IIC component
work correctly. The default version only works on the emulator, so
the layer below the SHAI is a series of stubs. In order for this test
harness to work with actual hardware, extensive modification to t_iic.exe
will have to be undertaken. </p></section>
<section id="GUID-99B49CF1-FEE1-4F60-8265-DC592360ED04"><title>Test
application use cases</title><p>The IIC test application is used to
test:</p><ul>
<li><p>The basic master channel functionality.</p></li>
<li><p>The master channel data handling for transaction functionality.</p></li>
<li><p>The master channel preamble and multi-transaction functionality.</p></li>
<li><p>The slave channel capture and release APIs.</p></li>
<li><p>The slave channel capture for receive and transmit of data.</p></li>
<li><p>That MasterSlave channels can only be used for one mode at
a time.</p></li>
</ul></section>
<section id="GUID-CCAF786E-A52C-4BAF-8C84-07FF68776376"><title>Limitations</title><p>The IIC test application has the following known limitations:</p><ul>
<li><p>This test suite does not work on hardware.</p></li>
</ul></section>
</conbody></concept>