<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-7AB0C7E2-8B7C-5CC3-BAA5-15AA59F31181" xml:lang="en"><title>InterpretSIS</title><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>InterpretSIS is a command-line tool used to install SIS files to
a data drive image that can be flashed onto a device's <codeph>system
drive</codeph>. It is either invoked through <xref href="GUID-E4447BEF-33D2-5099-BCC1-C72FBB3B0463.dita">BUILDROM</xref> while
creating a data drive image or can be invoked directly. </p>
<p>For more information on <codeph>system drive</codeph> refer to,
&gt; Symbian Guide &gt; Kernel and Hardware Services Guide &gt; User Library
and File Server &gt; File Server &gt; File Server Client Side &gt; The System
Drive. </p>
<section id="GUID-64216AE8-5791-5844-9752-C0413D1F8808"><title>Command-line
syntax</title> <p>The syntax for using <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> is as follows: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-72A667CC-9F1B-5C0C-B6F3-66F7B8C10A84" xml:space="preserve">InterpretSIS [-v] [-h] [-w off|error|warn|info [-l &lt;logfile&gt;]] [-d &lt;systemdrive&gt;] -c &lt;dir&gt; -z &lt;dir&gt; -s &lt;filename.sis&gt;[,&lt;filename2.sis&gt;, &lt;dir&gt;, ...]</codeblock> <p>or: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-7C291914-3E14-587F-8826-445ACE0FE555" xml:space="preserve">InterpretSIS -p &lt;filename&gt;</codeblock> <table id="GUID-2A28E178-CB21-57E9-996E-BAF55BA0EBF6">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph> -v</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Displays verbose output. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-h</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Displays help. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-w</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The warning level to report; <codeph>error</codeph> by default. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-l</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The log file to write to; standard error by default.  </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>-d</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The drive letter of the system drive on the target device; <filepath>C:</filepath> by default. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph> -c</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>A directory on the PC representing the drive on the target
device to which files are installed. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph> -z</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>A directory on the PC representing the contents of the ROM
(the <filepath>Z:</filepath> drive). This needs to be specified so
that <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> can check any dependencies are
met and to prevent invalid eclipsing. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph> -s </codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>The SIS file(s) to install. Any directory specified will
be searched for SIS files. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> <p>For example: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-B409DA60-3779-5E58-92AD-CC45403E98C0" xml:space="preserve">interpretsis -d c -c c:\epoc32\winscw\c -z C:\epoc32\release\WINSCW\udeb\Z -s sisfile1.sis, directory1, sisfile2.sis -w info</codeblock> <p>Alternatively, the parameters can be placed in a file, which
is passed to <codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> using the <codeph>-p</codeph> option: </p> <codeblock id="GUID-76151F7A-050E-5BDA-827C-D3E47F304D61" xml:space="preserve">InterpretSIS -p &lt;filename&gt;</codeblock> </section>
</conbody></concept>