<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-AFA1604D-FF0C-56BE-A71E-AF3C662F8943" xml:lang="en"><title>Platform-Specific
Makefile</title><shortdesc>Describes how to write the platform-specific makefile to build
the bootstrap.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<p>The platform-specific makefile sets some variables for file and path names
and then includes the generic makefile. </p>
<p>The makefile consists of a collection of variables divided into a mandatory
set, which <i>must</i> have values assigned, and an optional set. </p>
<p>The values are used by the Symbian platform generic makefile. </p>
<section id="GUID-B949A719-49FB-5D45-BC34-B1A6F90D2D25"><title>Mandatory variables</title><table id="GUID-3A058FA9-6656-5C67-8498-1C6F4AA59687">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>NAME</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This the name of the bootstrap binary file. The filename is <filepath>NAME.bin</filepath> and
it appears in <filepath>EPOCROOT/epoc32/release/PLATFORM</filepath> where
PLATFORM is e.g. ARM4, ARMV5 etc. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>MEMMODEL</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>This specifies which memory model is to be used on the target platform.
Valid values are: </p><ul>
<li id="GUID-8555F19E-C904-51DB-AAA2-03FBAD463572"><p> <codeph>direct</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-E2BFCDB6-E2D7-597F-A1A6-82DE5E3A24D6"><p> <codeph>moving</codeph>  </p> </li>
<li id="GUID-DFE497B1-7C4E-5C53-BBC5-42F76AA88317"><p> <codeph>multiple</codeph>  </p> </li>
</ul><p>Platforms that use an ARM architecture 4, 4T or 5 will use <codeph>moving</codeph> for
the main bootstrap.</p><p>Platforms that use ARM architecture 6 will use <codeph>multiple</codeph>. </p><p>Usually, <codeph>direct</codeph> will
only be used when building a bootloader. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>SOURCES</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies a list of platform-dependent assembler source files, each
separated by at least one space, needed to build the bootstrap. Only file
names are required, not paths. </p> <p>In the example of the template, there
is a single source file, <filepath>template.s</filepath>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>INCLUDES</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies a list of platform-dependent assembler include files,
each separated by at least one space, needed to build the bootstrap. Only
file names are required, not paths. </p> <p>In the example of the template,
there is a single include file, <filepath>config.inc</filepath>. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>E32PATH</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies the relative path from the directory containing the platform-specific
makefile to the directory containing the <filepath>e32</filepath> source tree.
This is used to find the generic source and the generic include files required
to build the bootstrap. </p> <p>In the example of the template, the path is <filepath>../..</filepath>. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
<section id="GUID-77F41D8D-CB34-57DA-ADB0-48A2EC25F698"><title>Optional variables</title> <table id="GUID-E24A5C3A-8685-5E33-BD43-AF8CAB90EB95">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col0"/><colspec colname="col1"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>EXTRA_INC_PATH</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies a list of directories, each separated by at least one
space, which should be searched for assembler include files (<filepath>.inc</filepath>),
and possibly C/C++ header files (<filepath>.h</filepath>) to be translated
into assembler syntax. </p> <p>Each entry in this list is relative to the
directory in which the platform-specific makefile resides. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>EXTRA_SRC_PATH</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies a list of directories, each separated by at least one
space, which should be searched for assembler source files (<filepath>.s</filepath>). </p> <p>Each
entry in this list is relative to the directory in which the platform-specific
makefile resides. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>GENINCLUDES</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies a list of additional C/C++ header files (<filepath>.h</filepath>),
each separated by at least one space, which should be translated into assembler
syntax include files (<filepath>.inc</filepath>) for inclusion in assembler
source. </p> <p>For example, if a file <filepath>x.h</filepath> is specified
in this list, it will be translated to <filepath>x.inc</filepath> in the build
directory, and it should be included as <filepath>x.inc</filepath> in any
source file which requires it. </p> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p> <codeph>ASM_MACROS</codeph>  </p> </entry>
<entry><p>Specifies a list of additional symbols, each separated by at least
one space, which should be defined when assembling each source file. Values
may not be assigned to the symbols; all that can be tested is whether a symbol
is defined. </p> </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </section>
</conbody></concept>