<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!-- Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies) All rights reserved. -->
<!-- This component and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the License 
"Eclipse Public License v1.0" which accompanies this distribution, 
and is available at the URL "http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html". -->
<!-- Initial Contributors:
    Nokia Corporation - initial contribution.
Contributors: 
-->
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="GUID-37B8243E-027A-49D0-A896-27946DAC9052" xml:lang="en"><title>Baseport Template Tools Guide</title><shortdesc>Describes the tools required needed to implement and test
the Baseport Template platform service.</shortdesc><prolog><metadata><keywords/></metadata></prolog><conbody>
<section id="GUID-BEE8A42D-5A75-4F2A-8B94-2FA43A9143A8"><title>Build
tools</title>             <p>The following build tools are available: </p><table id="GUID-F7659F0C-0991-43D0-A077-2C0581A0BDBE">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Name</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-E4447BEF-33D2-5099-BCC1-C72FBB3B0463.dita">BUILDROM</xref></entry>
<entry><codeph>BUILDROM</codeph> is a unified ROM building front end.
It invokes <codeph>ROMBUILD</codeph> to build the ROM image and <codeph>ROFSBUILD</codeph> to build the ROFS image.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-003D2C5B-09DC-5BD1-AF45-A0FCB56F567B.dita">ROMBUILD</xref></entry>
<entry><codeph>ROMBUILD</codeph> is the Symbian platform binary XIP
(execute-in-place) ROM builder. It is normally invoked through <codeph>BUILDROM</codeph>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-BF04B68E-7F77-5D99-A0F6-2842758EFD4D.dita">ROFSBUILD</xref></entry>
<entry><codeph>ROFSBUILD</codeph> is the Symbian platform non-XIP
ROFS builder. It is normally invoked through <codeph>BUILDROM</codeph>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/Build_Package/iMaker" scope="external">iMaker</xref></entry>
<entry><codeph>iMaker</codeph> is a ROM-image creation tool that creates
a flash image from a set of Symbian binary and data files. <codeph>iMaker</codeph> mainly functions on top of BUILDROM.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-922E4771-C1FD-5C88-9C11-57499684DB97.dita">SPITOOL</xref></entry>
<entry><codeph>SPITOOL</codeph> is a utility tool to create static
plug-in information (SPI) files.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-7AB0C7E2-8B7C-5CC3-BAA5-15AA59F31181.dita">InterpretSIS</xref></entry>
<entry><codeph>InterpretSIS</codeph> is a command-line tool used to
install SIS files. It can be invoked either through <codeph>BUILDROM</codeph> or directly.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-51C5DC6C-0CEE-5F44-8578-AEFBEF90FA4D.dita">READIMAGE</xref></entry>
<entry><codeph>READIMAGE</codeph> is a command-line tool that provides
readable data from a ROM, ROFS, or E32 image.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-CC04A14B-A839-5613-820D-F1E65EB2DF7F.dita">MAKSYM/MAKSYMROFS</xref></entry>
<entry><codeph>MAKSYM/MAKSYMROFS</codeph> is a tool to create a readable
symbol file listing the virtual addresses of the exported functions.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="GUID-9CF985F1-C100-5999-9410-58B7865A1E18.dita">Obey
Files</xref></entry>
<entry><codeph>OBEY</codeph> files are standard text files containing
statements that are used to control the operation of the ROM building
tools.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/Raptor_Build_System" scope="external">Symbian Build System v2</xref></entry>
<entry><codeph>SBSv2</codeph> is a tool for building Symbian platform
and applications developed for Symbian platform. It helps you build
a set of components, or the complete Symbian platform, on Windows
and Linux platforms for the ARMv5, TOOLS2 and WINSCW target platforms.
They also provide a reference to the file formats used as input to
the build tools. For more information about SBSv2, see the Symbian
Build System v2  documentation that is provided with the Platform
Developer Toolkit. </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>         </section>
<section id="GUID-565FDA0A-67BD-46D7-9673-D35B83EF09AC"><title>Emulators</title><p>The following emulators are available: </p><table id="GUID-AC6E5AC1-0344-4984-93CE-E721F35A6BFC">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Name</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/Syborg_&amp;_QEMU" scope="external">QEMU</xref></entry>
<entry><codeph>QEMU</codeph> is an open source emulator which can
be used to run and debug a Symbian ROM image on a PC.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><xref href="http://developer.symbian.org/wiki/index.php/Syborg_&amp;_QEMU" scope="external">Syborg</xref></entry>
<entry> <codeph>Syborg</codeph> is a Symbian baseport for use with
QEMU.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
</conbody><related-links>
<link href="GUID-0C84FD76-87B2-4AD1-B23A-2C5C8668BC4C.dita"><linktext>Base
Porting Guide</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-57989FF8-5E8F-4C8A-9D38-169AFCA4C078.dita"><linktext>Baseport
Template Implementation Guide</linktext></link>
<link href="GUID-627FC480-AF4F-4B23-8671-6E0A0DABA0EF.dita"><linktext>Baseport
Template Testing Guide</linktext></link>
</related-links></concept>